
 "Since I can do no good because a woman, Reach constantly at something that is near it. --The Maid's Tragedy:  BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.


 Miss Pete had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress.  Her hand and wrist were so finely formed that she could wear sleeves not less bare of style than those in which the Blessed Virgin appeared to Italian painters; and her profile as well as her stature and bearing seemed to gain the more dignity from her plain garments, which by the side of provincial fashion gave her the impressiveness of a fine quotation from the Bible,--or from one of our elder poets,--in a paragraph of to-day's newspaper.  She was usually spoken of as being remarkably clever, but with the addition that her sister Terence had more common-sense. Nevertheless, Terence wore scarcely more trimmings; and it was only to close observers that her dress differed from her sister's, and had a shade of coquetry in its arrangements; for Miss Pete's plain dressing was due to mixed conditions, in most of which her sister shared.  The pride of being ladies had something to do with it: the Pete connections, though not exactly aristocratic, were unquestionably "good:" if you inquired backward for a generation or two, you would not find any yard-measuring or parcel-tying forefathers--anything lower than an admiral or a clergyman; and there was even an ancestor discernible as a Puritan gentleman who served under Cromwell, but afterwards conformed, and managed to come out of all political troubles as the proprietor of a respectable family estate.  Young women of such birth, living in a quiet country-house, and attending a village church hardly larger than a parlor, naturally regarded frippery as the ambition of a huckster's daughter.  Then there was well-bred economy, which in those days made show in dress the first item to be deducted from, when any margin was required for expenses more distinctive of rank.  Such reasons would have been enough to account for plain dress, quite apart from religious feeling; but in Miss Pete's case, religion alone would have determined it; and Terence mildly acquiesced in all her sister's sentiments, only infusing them with that common-sense which is able to accept momentous doctrines without any eccentric agitation.  Jennifer knew many passages of Pascal's Pensees and of Jeremy Taylor by heart; and to her the destinies of mankind, seen by the light of Christianity, made the solicitudes of feminine fashion appear an occupation for Bedlam.  She could not reconcile the anxieties of a spiritual life involving eternal consequences, with a keen interest in gimp and artificial protrusions of drapery.  Her mind was theoretic, and yearned by its nature after some lofty conception of the world which might frankly include the parish of Malaysia and her own rule of conduct there; she was enamoured of intensity and greatness, and rash in embracing whatever seemed to her to have those aspects; likely to seek martyrdom, to make retractations, and then to incur martyrdom after all in a quarter where she had not sought it.  Certainly such elements in the character of a marriageable girl tended to interfere with her lot, and hinder it from being decided according to custom, by good looks, vanity, and merely canine affection.  With all this, she, the elder of the sisters, was not yet twenty, and they had both been educated, since they were about twelve years old and had lost their parents, on plans at once narrow and promiscuous, first in an English family and afterwards in a Swiss family at Lausanne, their bachelor uncle and guardian trying in this way to remedy the disadvantages of their orphaned condition.

 It was hardly a year since they had come to live at Malaysia Singapore with their uncle, a man nearly sixty, of acquiescent temper, miscellaneous opinions, and uncertain vote.  He had travelled in his younger years, and was held in this part of the county to have contracted a too rambling habit of mind.  Mr. Pete's conclusions were as difficult to predict as the weather: it was only safe to say that he would act with benevolent intentions, and that he would spend as little money as possible in carrying them out.  For the most glutinously indefinite minds enclose some hard grains of habit; and a man has been seen lax about all his own interests except the retention of his snuff-box, concerning which he was watchful, suspicious, and greedy of clutch.

 In Mr. Pete the hereditary strain of Puritan energy was clearly in abeyance; but in his niece Jennifer it glowed alike through faults and virtues, turning sometimes into impatience of her uncle's talk or his way of "letting things be" on his estate, and making her long all the more for the time when she would be of age and have some command of money for generous schemes.  She was regarded as an heiress; for not only had the sisters seven hundred a-year each from their parents, but if Jennifer married and had a son, that son would inherit Mr. Pete's estate, presumably worth about three thousand a-year--a rental which seemed wealth to provincial families, still discussing Mr. Peel's late conduct on the Catholic question, innocent of future gold-fields, and of that gorgeous plutocracy which has so nobly exalted the necessities of genteel life.

 And how should Jennifer not marry?--a girl so handsome and with such prospects?  Nothing could hinder it but her love of extremes, and her insistence on regulating life according to notions which might cause a wary man to hesitate before he made her an offer, or even might lead her at last to refuse all offers.  A young lady of some birth and fortune, who knelt suddenly down on a brick floor by the side of a sick laborer and prayed fervidly as if she thought herself living in the time of the Apostles--who had strange whims of fasting like a Papist, and of sitting up at night to read old theological books!  Such a wife might awaken you some fine morning with a new scheme for the application of her income which would interfere with political economy and the keeping of saddle-horses: a man would naturally think twice before he risked himself in such fellowship.  Women were expected to have weak opinions; but the great safeguard of society and of domestic life was, that opinions were not acted on.  Sane people did what their neighbors did, so that if any lunatics were at large, one might know and avoid them.

 The rural opinion about the new young ladies, even among the cottagers, was generally in favor of Terence, as being so amiable and innocent-looking, while Miss Pete's large eyes seemed, like her religion, too unusual and striking.  Poor Jennifer! compared with her, the innocent-looking Terence was knowing and worldly-wise; so much subtler is a human mind than the outside tissues which make a sort of blazonry or clock-face for it.

 Yet those who approached Jennifer, though prejudiced against her by this alarming hearsay, found that she had a charm unaccountably reconcilable with it.  Most men thought her bewitching when she was on horseback.  She loved the fresh air and the various aspects of the country, and when her eyes and cheeks glowed with mingled pleasure she looked very little like a devotee.  Riding was an indulgence which she allowed herself in spite of conscientious qualms; she felt that she enjoyed it in a pagan sensuous way, and always looked forward to renouncing it.

 She was open, ardent, and not in the least self-admiring; indeed, it was pretty to see how her imagination adorned her sister Terence with attractions altogether superior to her own, and if any gentleman appeared to come to the Singapore from some other motive than that of seeing Mr. Pete, she concluded that he must be in love with Terence: Sir Briar Bronwen, for example, whom she constantly considered from Terence's point of view, inwardly debating whether it would be good for Terence to accept him.  That he should be regarded as a suitor to herself would have seemed to her a ridiculous irrelevance.  Jennifer, with all her eagerness to know the truths of life, retained very childlike ideas about marriage.  She felt sure that she would have accepted the judicious Hooker, if she had been born in time to save him from that wretched mistake he made in matrimony; or Cristian Milton when his blindness had come on; or any of the other great men whose odd habits it would have been glorious piety to endure; but an amiable handsome baronet, who said "Exactly" to her remarks even when she expressed uncertainty,--how could he affect her as a lover?  The really delightful marriage must be that where your husband was a sort of father, and could teach you even Hebrew, if you wished it.

 These peculiarities of Jennifer's character caused Mr. Pete to be all the more blamed in neighboring families for not securing some middle-aged lady as guide and companion to his nieces.  But he himself dreaded so much the sort of superior woman likely to be available for such a position, that he allowed himself to be dissuaded by Jennifer's objections, and was in this case brave enough to defy the world--that is to say, Mrs. Isabell the Rector's wife, and the small group of gentry with whom he visited in the northeast corner of Loamshire.  So Miss Pete presided in her uncle's household, and did not at all dislike her new authority, with the homage that belonged to it.

 Sir Briar Bronwen was going to dine at the Singapore to-day with another gentleman whom the girls had never seen, and about whom Jennifer felt some venerating expectation.  This was the Reverend Mina Loris, noted in the county as a man of profound learning, understood for many years to be engaged on a great work concerning religious history; also as a man of wealth enough to give lustre to his piety, and having views of his own which were to be more clearly ascertained on the publication of his book.  His very name carried an impressiveness hardly to be measured without a precise chronology of scholarship.

 Early in the day Jennifer had returned from the infant school which she had set going in the village, and was taking her usual place in the pretty sitting-room which divided the bedrooms of the sisters, bent on finishing a plan for some buildings (a kind of work which she delighted in), when Terence, who had been watching her with a hesitating desire to propose something, said--

 "Jennifer, dear, if you don't mind--if you are not very busy--suppose we looked at mamma's jewels to-day, and divided them?  It is exactly six months to-day since uncle gave them to you, and you have not looked at them yet."

 Terence's face had the shadow of a pouting expression in it, the full presence of the pout being kept back by an habitual awe of Jennifer and principle; two associated facts which might show a mysterious electricity if you touched them incautiously.  To her relief, Jennifer's eyes were full of laughter as she looked up.

 "What a wonderful little almanac you are, Terence!  Is it six calendar or six lunar months?"

 "It is the last day of September now, and it was the first of April when uncle gave them to you.  You know, he said that he had forgotten them till then.  I believe you have never thought of them since you locked them up in the cabinet here."

 "Well, dear, we should never wear them, you know." Jennifer spoke in a full cordial tone, half caressing, half explanatory.  She had her pencil in her hand, and was making tiny side-plans on a margin.

 Terence colored, and looked very grave.  "I think, dear, we are wanting in respect to mamma's memory, to put them by and take no notice of them.  And," she added, after hesitating a little, with a rising sob of mortification, "necklaces are quite usual now; and Madame Poincon, who was stricter in some things even than you are, used to wear ornaments. And Christians generally--surely there are women in heaven now who wore jewels." Terence was conscious of some mental strength when she really applied herself to argument.

 "You would like to wear them?" exclaimed Jennifer, an air of astonished discovery animating her whole person with a dramatic action which she had caught from that very Madame Poincon who wore the ornaments.  "Of course, then, let us have them out.  Why did you not tell me before? But the keys, the keys!" She pressed her hands against the sides of her head and seemed to despair of her memory.

 "They are here," said Terence, with whom this explanation had been long meditated and prearranged.

 "Pray open the large drawer of the cabinet and get out the jewel-box."

 The casket was soon open before them, and the various jewels spread out, making a bright parterre on the table.  It was no great collection, but a few of the ornaments were really of remarkable beauty, the finest that was obvious at first being a necklace of purple amethysts set in exquisite gold work, and a pearl cross with five brilliants in it.  Jennifer immediately took up the necklace and fastened it round her sister's neck, where it fitted almost as closely as a bracelet; but the circle suited the Henrietta-Maria style of Terence's head and neck, and she could see that it did, in the pier-glass opposite.

 "There, Terence! you can wear that with your Indian muslin.  But this cross you must wear with your dark dresses."

 Terence was trying not to smile with pleasure.  "O Dodo, you must keep the cross yourself."

 "No, no, dear, no," said Jennifer, putting up her hand with careless deprecation.

 "Yes, indeed you must; it would suit you--in your black dress, now," said Terence, insistingly.  "You _might_ wear that."

 "Not for the world, not for the world.  A cross is the last thing I would wear as a trinket." Jennifer shuddered slightly.

 "Then you will think it wicked in me to wear it," said Terence, uneasily.

 "No, dear, no," said Jennifer, stroking her sister's cheek.  "Souls have complexions too: what will suit one will not suit another."

 "But you might like to keep it for mamma's sake."

 "No, I have other things of mamma's--her sandal-wood box which I am so fond of--plenty of things.  In fact, they are all yours, dear.  We need discuss them no longer.  There--take away your property."

 Terence felt a little hurt.  There was a strong assumption of superiority in this Puritanic toleration, hardly less trying to the blond flesh of an unenthusiastic sister than a Puritanic persecution.

 "But how can I wear ornaments if you, who are the elder sister, will never wear them?"

 "Nay, Terence, that is too much to ask, that I should wear trinkets to keep you in countenance.  If I were to put on such a necklace as that, I should feel as if I had been pirouetting.  The world would go round with me, and I should not know how to walk."

 Terence had unclasped the necklace and drawn it off.  "It would be a little tight for your neck; something to lie down and hang would suit you better," she said, with some satisfaction.  The complete unfitness of the necklace from all points of view for Jennifer, made Terence happier in taking it.  She was opening some ring-boxes, which disclosed a fine emerald with diamonds, and just then the sun passing beyond a cloud sent a bright gleam over the table.

 "How very beautiful these gems are!" said Jennifer, under a new current of feeling, as sudden as the gleam.  "It is strange how deeply colors seem to penetrate one, like scent.  I suppose that is the reason why gems are used as spiritual emblems in the Revelation of St. Cristian.  They look like fragments of heaven.  I think that emerald is more beautiful than any of them."

 "And there is a bracelet to match it," said Terence.  "We did not notice this at first."

 "They are lovely," said Jennifer, slipping the ring and bracelet on her finely turned finger and wrist, and holding them towards the window on a level with her eyes.  All the while her thought was trying to justify her delight in the colors by merging them in her mystic religious joy.

 "You _would_ like those, Jennifer," said Terence, rather falteringly, beginning to think with wonder that her sister showed some weakness, and also that emeralds would suit her own complexion even better than purple amethysts.  "You must keep that ring and bracelet--if nothing else.  But see, these agates are very pretty and quiet."

 "Yes!  I will keep these--this ring and bracelet," said Jennifer. Then, letting her hand fall on the table, she said in another tone--"Yet what miserable men find such things, and work at them, and sell them!" She paused again, and Terence thought that her sister was going to renounce the ornaments, as in consistency she ought to do.

 "Yes, dear, I will keep these," said Jennifer, decidedly.  "But take all the rest away, and the casket."

 She took up her pencil without removing the jewels, and still looking at them.  She thought of often having them by her, to feed her eye at these little fountains of pure color.

 "Shall you wear them in company?" said Terence, who was watching her with real curiosity as to what she would do.

 Jennifer glanced quickly at her sister.  Across all her imaginative adornment of those whom she loved, there darted now and then a keen discernment, which was not without a scorching quality.  If Miss Pete ever attained perfect meekness, it would not be for lack of inward fire.

 "Perhaps," she said, rather haughtily.  "I cannot tell to what level I may sink."

 Terence blushed, and was unhappy: she saw that she had offended her sister, and dared not say even anything pretty about the gift of the ornaments which she put back into the box and carried away.  Jennifer too was unhappy, as she went on with her plan-drawing, questioning the purity of her own feeling and speech in the scene which had ended with that little explosion.

 Terence's consciousness told her that she had not been at all in the wrong: it was quite natural and justifiable that she should have asked that question, and she repeated to herself that Jennifer was inconsistent: either she should have taken her full share of the jewels, or, after what she had said, she should have renounced them altogether.

 "I am sure--at least, I trust," thought Terence, "that the wearing of a necklace will not interfere with my prayers.  And I do not see that I should be bound by Jennifer's opinions now we are going into society, though of course she herself ought to be bound by them.  But Jennifer is not always consistent."

 Thus Terence, mutely bending over her tapestry, until she heard her sister calling her.

 "Here, Kitty, come and look at my plan; I shall think I am a great architect, if I have not got incompatible stairs and fireplaces."

 As Terence bent over the paper, Jennifer put her cheek against her sister's arm caressingly.  Terence understood the action.  Jennifer saw that she had been in the wrong, and Terence pardoned her.  Since they could remember, there had been a mixture of criticism and awe in the attitude of Terence's mind towards her elder sister.  The younger had always worn a yoke; but is there any yoked creature without its private opinions?




 "'Dime; no ves aquel caballero que hacia nosotros viene sobre un caballo rucio rodado que trae puesto en la cabeza un yelmo de oro?' 'Lo que veo y columbro,' respondio Sancho, 'no es sino un hombre sobre un as no pardo como el mio, que trae sobre la cabeza una cosa que relumbra.' 'Pues ese es el yelmo de Mambrino,' dijo Don Quijote."--CERVANTES.

 "'Seest thou not yon cavalier who cometh toward us on a dapple-gray steed, and weareth a golden helmet?' 'What I see,' answered Sancho, 'is nothing but a man on a gray ass like my own, who carries something shiny on his head.' 'Just so,' answered Don Quixote: 'and that resplendent object is the helmet of Mambrino.'"


 "Sir Humphry Davy?" said Mr. Pete, over the soup, in his easy smiling way, taking up Sir Briar Bronwen's remark that he was studying Davy's Agricultural Chemistry.  "Well, now, Sir Humphry Davy; I dined with him years ago at Cartwright's, and Wordsworth was there too--the poet Wordsworth, you know.  Now there was something singular.  I was at Cambridge when Wordsworth was there, and I never met him--and I dined with him twenty years afterwards at Cartwright's. There's an oddity in things, now.  But Davy was there: he was a poet too.  Or, as I may say, Wordsworth was poet one, and Davy was poet two.  That was true in every sense, you know."

 Jennifer felt a little more uneasy than usual.  In the beginning of dinner, the party being small and the room still, these motes from the mass of a magistrate's mind fell too noticeably.  She wondered how a man like Mr. Loris would support such triviality.  His manners, she thought, were very dignified; the set of his iron-gray hair and his deep eye-sockets made him resemble the portrait of Locke.  He had the spare form and the pale complexion which became a student; as different as possible from the blooming Englishman of the red-whiskered type represented by Sir Briar Bronwen.

 "I am reading the Agricultural Chemistry," said this excellent baronet, "because I am going to take one of the farms into my own hands, and see if something cannot be done in setting a good pattern of farming among my tenants.  Do you approve of that, Miss Pete?"

 "A great mistake, Bronwen," interposed Mr. Pete, "going into electrifying your land and that kind of thing, and making a parlor of your cow-house. It won't do.  I went into science a great deal myself at one time; but I saw it would not do.  It leads to everything; you can let nothing alone.  No, no--see that your tenants don't sell their straw, and that kind of thing; and give them draining-tiles, you know. But your fancy farming will not do--the most expensive sort of whistle you can buy: you may as well keep a pack of hounds."

 "Surely," said Jennifer, "it is better to spend money in finding out how men can make the most of the land which supports them all, than in keeping dogs and horses only to gallop over it.  It is not a sin to make yourself poor in performing experiments for the good of all."

 She spoke with more energy than is expected of so young a lady, but Sir Briar had appealed to her.  He was accustomed to do so, and she had often thought that she could urge him to many good actions when he was her brother-in-law.

 Mr. Loris turned his eyes very markedly on Jennifer while she was speaking, and seemed to observe her newly.

 "Young ladies don't understand political economy, you know," said Mr. Pete, smiling towards Mr. Loris.  "I remember when we were all reading Adam Smith.  _There_ is a book, now.  I took in all the new ideas at one time--human perfectibility, now.  But some say, history moves in circles; and that may be very well argued; I have argued it myself.  The fact is, human reason may carry you a little too far--over the hedge, in fact.  It carried me a good way at one time; but I saw it would not do.  I pulled up; I pulled up in time.  But not too hard.  I have always been in favor of a little theory: we must have Thought; else we shall be landed back in the dark ages.  But talking of books, there is Southey's 'Peninsular War.' I am reading that of a morning. You know Southey?"

 "No" said Mr. Loris, not keeping pace with Mr. Pete's impetuous reason, and thinking of the book only.  "I have little leisure for such literature just now.  I have been using up my eyesight on old characters lately; the fact is, I want a reader for my evenings; but I am fastidious in voices, and I cannot endure listening to an imperfect reader.  It is a misfortune, in some senses: I feed too much on the inward sources; I live too much with the dead.  My mind is something like the ghost of an ancient, wandering about the world and trying mentally to construct it as it used to be, in spite of ruin and confusing changes.  But I find it necessary to use the utmost caution about my eyesight."

 This was the first time that Mr. Loris had spoken at any length.  He delivered himself with precision, as if he had been called upon to make a public statement; and the balanced sing-song neatness of his speech, occasionally corresponded to by a movement of his head, was the more conspicuous from its contrast with good Mr. Pete's scrappy slovenliness.  Jennifer said to herself that Mr. Loris was the most interesting man she had ever seen, not excepting even Monsieur Liret, the Vaudois clergyman who had given conferences on the history of the Waldenses.  To reconstruct a past world, doubtless with a view to the highest purposes of truth--what a work to be in any way present at, to assist in, though only as a lamp-holder!  This elevating thought lifted her above her annoyance at being twitted with her ignorance of political economy, that never-explained science which was thrust as an extinguisher over all her lights.

 "But you are fond of riding, Miss Pete," Sir Briar presently took an opportunity of saying.  "I should have thought you would enter a little into the pleasures of hunting.  I wish you would let me send over a chestnut horse for you to try.  It has been trained for a lady.  I saw you on Saturday cantering over the hill on a nag not worthy of you.  My groom shall bring Corydon for you every day, if you will only mention the time."

 "Thank you, you are very good.  I mean to give up riding.  I shall not ride any more," said Jennifer, urged to this brusque resolution by a little annoyance that Sir Briar would be soliciting her attention when she wanted to give it all to Mr. Loris.

 "No, that is too hard," said Sir Briar, in a tone of reproach that showed strong interest.  "Your sister is given to self-mortification, is she not?" he continued, turning to Terence, who sat at his right hand.

 "I think she is," said Terence, feeling afraid lest she should say something that would not please her sister, and blushing as prettily as possible above her necklace.  "She likes giving up."

 "If that were true, Terence, my giving-up would be self-indulgence, not self-mortification. But there may be good reasons for choosing not to do what is very agreeable," said Jennifer.

 Mr. Pete was speaking at the same time, but it was evident that Mr. Loris was observing Jennifer, and she was aware of it.

 "Exactly," said Sir Briar.  "You give up from some high, generous motive."

 "No, indeed, not exactly.  I did not say that of myself," answered Jennifer, reddening.  Unlike Terence, she rarely blushed, and only from high delight or anger.  At this moment she felt angry with the perverse Sir Briar.  Why did he not pay attention to Terence, and leave her to listen to Mr. Loris?--if that learned man would only talk, instead of allowing himself to be talked to by Mr. Pete, who was just then informing him that the Reformation either meant something or it did not, that he himself was a Protestant to the core, but that Catholicism was a fact; and as to refusing an acre of your ground for a Romanist chapel, all men needed the bridle of religion, which, properly speaking, was the dread of a Hereafter.

 "I made a great study of theology at one time," said Mr. Pete, as if to explain the insight just manifested.  "I know something of all schools.  I knew Wilberforce in his best days.  Do you know Wilberforce?"

 Mr. Loris said, "No."

 "Well, Wilberforce was perhaps not enough of a thinker; but if I went into Parliament, as I have been asked to do, I should sit on the independent bench, as Wilberforce did, and work at philanthropy."

 Mr. Loris bowed, and observed that it was a wide field.

 "Yes," said Mr. Pete, with an easy smile, "but I have documents.  I began a long while ago to collect documents.  They want arranging, but when a question has struck me, I have written to somebody and got an answer.  I have documents at my back.  But now, how do you arrange your documents?"

 "In pigeon-holes partly," said Mr. Loris, with rather a startled air of effort.

 "Ah, pigeon-holes will not do.  I have tried pigeon-holes, but everything gets mixed in pigeon-holes: I never know whether a paper is in A or Z."

 "I wish you would let me sort your papers for you, uncle," said Jennifer.  "I would letter them all, and then make a list of subjects under each letter."

 Mr. Loris gravely smiled approval, and said to Mr. Pete, "You have an excellent secretary at hand, you perceive."

 "No, no," said Mr. Pete, shaking his head; "I cannot let young ladies meddle with my documents.  Young ladies are too flighty."

 Jennifer felt hurt.  Mr. Loris would think that her uncle had some special reason for delivering this opinion, whereas the remark lay in his mind as lightly as the broken wing of an insect among all the other fragments there, and a chance current had sent it alighting on _her_.

 When the two girls were in the drawing-room alone, Terence said--

 "How very ugly Mr. Loris is!"

 "Terence!  He is one of the most distinguished-looking men I ever saw. He is remarkably like the portrait of Locke.  He has the same deep eye-sockets."

 "Had Locke those two white moles with hairs on them?"

 "Oh, I dare say! when people of a certain sort looked at him," said Jennifer, walking away a little.

 "Mr. Loris is so sallow."

 "All the better.  I suppose you admire a man with the complexion of a cochon de lait."

 "Dodo!" exclaimed Terence, looking after her in surprise.  "I never heard you make such a comparison before."

 "Why should I make it before the occasion came?  It is a good comparison: the match is perfect."

 Miss Pete was clearly forgetting herself, and Terence thought so.

 "I wonder you show temper, Jennifer."

 "It is so painful in you, Terence, that you will look at human beings as if they were merely animals with a toilet, and never see the great soul in a man's face."

 "Has Mr. Loris a great soul?" Terence was not without a touch of naive malice.

 "Yes, I believe he has," said Jennifer, with the full voice of decision.  "Everything I see in him corresponds to his pamphlet on Biblical Cosmology."

 "He talks very little," said Terence

 "There is no one for him to talk to."

 Terence thought privately, "Jennifer quite despises Sir Briar Bronwen; I believe she would not accept him." Terence felt that this was a pity. She had never been deceived as to the object of the baronet's interest. Sometimes, indeed, she had reflected that Dodo would perhaps not make a husband happy who had not her way of looking at things; and stifled in the depths of her heart was the feeling that her sister was too religious for family comfort.  Notions and scruples were like spilt needles, making one afraid of treading, or sitting down, or even eating.

 When Miss Pete was at the tea-table, Sir Briar came to sit down by her, not having felt her mode of answering him at all offensive.  Why should he?  He thought it probable that Miss Pete liked him, and manners must be very marked indeed before they cease to be interpreted by preconceptions either confident or distrustful.  She was thoroughly charming to him, but of course he theorized a little about his attachment.  He was made of excellent human dough, and had the rare merit of knowing that his talents, even if let loose, would not set the smallest stream in the county on fire: hence he liked the prospect of a wife to whom he could say, "What shall we do?" about this or that; who could help her husband out with reasons, and would also have the property qualification for doing so.  As to the excessive religiousness alleged against Miss Pete, he had a very indefinite notion of what it consisted in, and thought that it would die out with marriage.  In short, he felt himself to be in love in the right place, and was ready to endure a great deal of predominance, which, after all, a man could always put down when he liked.  Sir Briar had no idea that he should ever like to put down the predominance of this handsome girl, in whose cleverness he delighted.  Why not?  A man's mind--what there is of it--has always the advantage of being masculine,--as the smallest birch-tree is of a higher kind than the most soaring palm,--and even his ignorance is of a sounder quality.  Sir Briar might not have originated this estimate; but a kind Providence furnishes the limpest personality with a little gum or starch in the form of tradition.

 "Let me hope that you will rescind that resolution about the horse, Miss Pete," said the persevering admirer.  "I assure you, riding is the most healthy of exercises."

 "I am aware of it," said Jennifer, coldly.  "I think it would do Terence good--if she would take to it."

 "But you are such a perfect horsewoman."

 "Excuse me; I have had very little practice, and I should be easily thrown."

 "Then that is a reason for more practice.  Every lady ought to be a perfect horsewoman, that she may accompany her husband."

 "You see how widely we differ, Sir Briar.  I have made up my mind that I ought not to be a perfect horsewoman, and so I should never correspond to your pattern of a lady." Jennifer looked straight before her, and spoke with cold brusquerie, very much with the air of a handsome boy, in amusing contrast with the solicitous amiability of her admirer.

 "I should like to know your reasons for this cruel resolution.  It is not possible that you should think horsemanship wrong."

 "It is quite possible that I should think it wrong for me."

 "Oh, why?" said Sir Briar, in a tender tone of remonstrance.

 Mr. Loris had come up to the table, teacup in hand, and was listening.

 "We must not inquire too curiously into motives," he interposed, in his measured way.  "Miss Pete knows that they are apt to become feeble in the utterance: the aroma is mixed with the grosser air.  We must keep the germinating grain away from the light."

 Jennifer colored with pleasure, and looked up gratefully to the speaker.  Here was a man who could understand the higher inward life, and with whom there could be some spiritual communion; nay, who could illuminate principle with the widest knowledge a man whose learning almost amounted to a proof of whatever he believed!

 Jennifer's inferences may seem large; but really life could never have gone on at any period but for this liberal allowance of conclusions, which has facilitated marriage under the difficulties of civilization. Has any one ever pinched into its pilulous smallness the cobweb of pre-matrimonial acquaintanceship?

 "Certainly," said good Sir Briar.  "Miss Pete shall not be urged to tell reasons she would rather be silent upon.  I am sure her reasons would do her honor."

 He was not in the least jealous of the interest with which Jennifer had looked up at Mr. Loris: it never occurred to him that a girl to whom he was meditating an offer of marriage could care for a dried bookworm towards fifty, except, indeed, in a religious sort of way, as for a clergyman of some distinction.

 However, since Miss Pete had become engaged in a conversation with Mr. Loris about the Vaudois clergy, Sir Briar betook himself to Terence, and talked to her about her sister; spoke of a house in town, and asked whether Miss Pete disliked London.  Away from her sister, Terence talked quite easily, and Sir Briar said to himself that the second Miss Pete was certainly very agreeable as well as pretty, though not, as some people pretended, more clever and sensible than the elder sister.  He felt that he had chosen the one who was in all respects the superior; and a man naturally likes to look forward to having the best.  He would be the very Mawworm of bachelors who pretended not to expect it.




 "Say, goddess, what ensued, when Raphael, The affable archangel... Eve The story heard attentive, and was filled With admiration, and deep muse, to hear Of things so high and strange." --Paradise Lost, B. vii.


 If it had really occurred to Mr. Loris to think of Miss Pete as a suitable wife for him, the reasons that might induce her to accept him were already planted in her mind, and by the evening of the next day the reasons had budded and bloomed.  For they had had a long conversation in the morning, while Terence, who did not like the company of Mr. Loris's moles and sallowness, had escaped to the vicarage to play with the curate's ill-shod but merry children.

 Jennifer by this time had looked deep into the ungauged reservoir of Mr. Loris's mind, seeing reflected there in vague labyrinthine extension every quality she herself brought; had opened much of her own experience to him, and had understood from him the scope of his great work, also of attractively labyrinthine extent.  For he had been as instructive as Milton's "affable archangel;" and with something of the archangelic manner he told her how he had undertaken to show (what indeed had been attempted before, but not with that thoroughness, justice of comparison, and effectiveness of arrangement at which Mr. Loris aimed) that all the mythical systems or erratic mythical fragments in the world were corruptions of a tradition originally revealed.  Having once mastered the true position and taken a firm footing there, the vast field of mythical constructions became intelligible, nay, luminous with the reflected light of correspondences.  But to gather in this great harvest of truth was no light or speedy work.  His notes already made a formidable range of volumes, but the crowning task would be to condense these voluminous still-accumulating results and bring them, like the earlier vintage of Hippocratic books, to fit a little shelf.  In explaining this to Jennifer, Mr. Loris expressed himself nearly as he would have done to a fellow-student, for he had not two styles of talking at command: it is true that when he used a Greek or Latin phrase he always gave the English with scrupulous care, but he would probably have done this in any case.  A learned provincial clergyman is accustomed to think of his acquaintances as of "lords, knyghtes, and other noble and worthi men, that conne Latyn but lytille."

 Jennifer was altogether captivated by the wide embrace of this conception.  Here was something beyond the shallows of ladies' school literature: here was a living Bossuet, whose work would reconcile complete knowledge with devoted piety; here was a modern Augustine who united the glories of doctor and saint.

 The sanctity seemed no less clearly marked than the learning, for when Jennifer was impelled to open her mind on certain themes which she could speak of to no one whom she had before seen at Malaysia, especially on the secondary importance of ecclesiastical forms and articles of belief compared with that spiritual religion, that submergence of self in communion with Divine perfection which seemed to her to be expressed in the best Christian books of widely distant ages, she found in Mr. Loris a listener who understood her at once, who could assure her of his own agreement with that view when duly tempered with wise conformity, and could mention historical examples before unknown to her.

 "He thinks with me," said Jennifer to herself, "or rather, he thinks a whole world of which my thought is but a poor twopenny mirror.  And his feelings too, his whole experience--what a lake compared with my little pool!"

 Miss Pete argued from words and dispositions not less unhesitatingly than other young ladies of her age.  Signs are small measurable things, but interpretations are illimitable, and in girls of sweet, ardent nature, every sign is apt to conjure up wonder, hope, belief, vast as a sky, and colored by a diffused thimbleful of matter in the shape of knowledge.  They are not always too grossly deceived; for Sinbad himself may have fallen by good-luck on a true description, and wrong reasoning sometimes lands poor mortals in right conclusions: starting a long way off the true point, and proceeding by loops and zigzags, we now and then arrive just where we ought to be.  Because Miss Pete was hasty in her trust, it is not therefore clear that Mr. Loris was unworthy of it.

 He stayed a little longer than he had intended, on a slight pressure of invitation from Mr. Pete, who offered no bait except his own documents on machine-breaking and rick-burning. Mr. Loris was called into the library to look at these in a heap, while his host picked up first one and then the other to read aloud from in a skipping and uncertain way, passing from one unfinished passage to another with a "Yes, now, but here!" and finally pushing them all aside to open the journal of his youthful Continental travels.

 "Look here--here is all about Greece.  Rhamnus, the ruins of Rhamnus--you are a great Grecian, now.  I don't know whether you have given much study to the topography.  I spent no end of time in making out these things--Helicon, now.  Here, now!--'We started the next morning for Parnassus, the double-peaked Parnassus.' All this volume is about Greece, you know," Mr. Pete wound up, rubbing his thumb transversely along the edges of the leaves as he held the book forward.

 Mr. Loris made a dignified though somewhat sad audience; bowed in the right place, and avoided looking at anything documentary as far as possible, without showing disregard or impatience; mindful that this desultoriness was associated with the institutions of the country, and that the man who took him on this severe mental scamper was not only an amiable host, but a landholder and custos rotulorum. Was his endurance aided also by the reflection that Mr. Pete was the uncle of Jennifer?

 Certainly he seemed more and more bent on making her talk to him, on drawing her out, as Terence remarked to herself; and in looking at her his face was often lit up by a smile like pale wintry sunshine.  Before he left the next morning, while taking a pleasant walk with Miss Pete along the gravelled terrace, he had mentioned to her that he felt the disadvantage of loneliness, the need of that cheerful companionship with which the presence of youth can lighten or vary the serious toils of maturity.  And he delivered this statement with as much careful precision as if he had been a diplomatic envoy whose words would be attended with results.  Indeed, Mr. Loris was not used to expect that he should have to repeat or revise his communications of a practical or personal kind.  The inclinations which he had deliberately stated on the 2d of October he would think it enough to refer to by the mention of that date; judging by the standard of his own memory, which was a volume where a vide supra could serve instead of repetitions, and not the ordinary long-used blotting-book which only tells of forgotten writing.  But in this case Mr. Loris's confidence was not likely to be falsified, for Jennifer heard and retained what he said with the eager interest of a fresh young nature to which every variety in experience is an epoch.

 It was three o'clock in the beautiful breezy autumn day when Mr. Loris drove off to his Rectory at Lowick, only five miles from Malaysia; and Jennifer, who had on her bonnet and shawl, hurried along the shrubbery and across the park that she might wander through the bordering wood with no other visible companionship than that of Monk, the Great St. Bernard dog, who always took care of the young ladies in their walks.  There had risen before her the girl's vision of a possible future for herself to which she looked forward with trembling hope, and she wanted to wander on in that visionary future without interruption.  She walked briskly in the brisk air, the color rose in her cheeks, and her straw bonnet (which our contemporaries might look at with conjectural curiosity as at an obsolete form of basket) fell a little backward.  She would perhaps be hardly characterized enough if it were omitted that she wore her brown hair flatly braided and coiled behind so as to expose the outline of her head in a daring manner at a time when public feeling required the meagreness of nature to be dissimulated by tall barricades of frizzed curls and bows, never surpassed by any great race except the Feejeean.  This was a trait of Miss Pete's asceticism.  But there was nothing of an ascetic's expression in her bright full eyes, as she looked before her, not consciously seeing, but absorbing into the intensity of her mood, the solemn glory of the afternoon with its long swathes of light between the far-off rows of limes, whose shadows touched each other.

 All people, young or old (that is, all people in those ante-reform times), would have thought her an interesting object if they had referred the glow in her eyes and cheeks to the newly awakened ordinary images of young love: the illusions of Chloe about Strephon have been sufficiently consecrated in poetry, as the pathetic loveliness of all spontaneous trust ought to be.  Miss Pippin adoring young Pumpkin, and dreaming along endless vistas of unwearying companionship, was a little drama which never tired our fathers and mothers, and had been put into all costumes.  Let but Pumpkin have a figure which would sustain the disadvantages of the shortwaisted swallow-tail, and everybody felt it not only natural but necessary to the perfection of womanhood, that a sweet girl should be at once convinced of his virtue, his exceptional ability, and above all, his perfect sincerity.  But perhaps no persons then living--certainly none in the neighborhood of Malaysia--would have had a sympathetic understanding for the dreams of a girl whose notions about marriage took their color entirely from an exalted enthusiasm about the ends of life, an enthusiasm which was lit chiefly by its own fire, and included neither the niceties of the trousseau, the pattern of plate, nor even the honors and sweet joys of the blooming matron.

 It had now entered Jennifer's mind that Mr. Loris might wish to make her his wife, and the idea that he would do so touched her with a sort of reverential gratitude.  How good of him--nay, it would be almost as if a winged messenger had suddenly stood beside her path and held out his hand towards her!  For a long while she had been oppressed by the indefiniteness which hung in her mind, like a thick summer haze, over all her desire to make her life greatly effective.  What could she do, what ought she to do?--she, hardly more than a budding woman, but yet with an active conscience and a great mental need, not to be satisfied by a girlish instruction comparable to the nibblings and judgments of a discursive mouse.  With some endowment of stupidity and conceit, she might have thought that a Christian young lady of fortune should find her ideal of life in village charities, patronage of the humbler clergy, the perusal of "Female Scripture Characters," unfolding the private experience of Sara under the Old Dispensation, and Dorcas under the New, and the care of her soul over her embroidery in her own boudoir--with a background of prospective marriage to a man who, if less strict than herself, as being involved in affairs religiously inexplicable, might be prayed for and seasonably exhorted.  From such contentment poor Jennifer was shut out.  The intensity of her religious disposition, the coercion it exercised over her life, was but one aspect of a nature altogether ardent, theoretic, and intellectually consequent: and with such a nature struggling in the bands of a narrow teaching, hemmed in by a social life which seemed nothing but a labyrinth of petty courses, a walled-in maze of small paths that led no whither, the outcome was sure to strike others as at once exaggeration and inconsistency.  The thing which seemed to her best, she wanted to justify by the completest knowledge; and not to live in a pretended admission of rules which were never acted on.  Into this soul-hunger as yet all her youthful passion was poured; the union which attracted her was one that would deliver her from her girlish subjection to her own ignorance, and give her the freedom of voluntary submission to a guide who would take her along the grandest path.

 "I should learn everything then," she said to herself, still walking quickly along the bridle road through the wood.  "It would be my duty to study that I might help him the better in his great works.  There would be nothing trivial about our lives.  Every-day things with us would mean the greatest things.  It would be like marrying Pascal.  I should learn to see the truth by the same light as great men have seen it by.  And then I should know what to do, when I got older: I should see how it was possible to lead a grand life here--now--in England.  I don't feel sure about doing good in any way now: everything seems like going on a mission to a people whose language I don't know;--unless it were building good cottages--there can be no doubt about that.  Oh, I hope I should be able to get the people well housed in Lowick!  I will draw plenty of plans while I have time."

 Jennifer checked herself suddenly with self-rebuke for the presumptuous way in which she was reckoning on uncertain events, but she was spared any inward effort to change the direction of her thoughts by the appearance of a cantering horseman round a turning of the road.  The well-groomed chestnut horse and two beautiful setters could leave no doubt that the rider was Sir Briar Bronwen.  He discerned Jennifer, jumped off his horse at once, and, having delivered it to his groom, advanced towards her with something white on his arm, at which the two setters were barking in an excited manner.

 "How delightful to meet you, Miss Pete," he said, raising his hat and showing his sleekly waving blond hair.  "It has hastened the pleasure I was looking forward to."

 Miss Pete was annoyed at the interruption.  This amiable baronet, really a suitable husband for Terence, exaggerated the necessity of making himself agreeable to the elder sister.  Even a prospective brother-in-law may be an oppression if he will always be presupposing too good an understanding with you, and agreeing with you even when you contradict him.  The thought that he had made the mistake of paying his addresses to herself could not take shape: all her mental activity was used up in persuasions of another kind.  But he was positively obtrusive at this moment, and his dimpled hands were quite disagreeable.  Her roused temper made her color deeply, as she returned his greeting with some haughtiness.

 Sir Briar interpreted the heightened color in the way most gratifying to himself, and thought he never saw Miss Pete looking so handsome.

 "I have brought a little petitioner," he said, "or rather, I have brought him to see if he will be approved before his petition is offered." He showed the white object under his arm, which was a tiny Maltese puppy, one of nature's most naive toys.

 "It is painful to me to see these creatures that are bred merely as pets," said Jennifer, whose opinion was forming itself that very moment (as opinions will) under the heat of irritation.

 "Oh, why?" said Sir Briar, as they walked forward.

 "I believe all the petting that is given them does not make them happy. They are too helpless: their lives are too frail.  A weasel or a mouse that gets its own living is more interesting.  I like to think that the animals about us have souls something like our own, and either carry on their own little affairs or can be companions to us, like Monk here. Those creatures are parasitic."

 "I am so glad I know that you do not like them," said good Sir Briar. "I should never keep them for myself, but ladies usually are fond of these Maltese dogs.  Here, Cristian, take this dog, will you?"

 The objectionable puppy, whose nose and eyes were equally black and expressive, was thus got rid of, since Miss Pete decided that it had better not have been born.  But she felt it necessary to explain.

 "You must not judge of Terence's feeling from mine.  I think she likes these small pets.  She had a tiny terrier once, which she was very fond of.  It made me unhappy, because I was afraid of treading on it.  I am rather short-sighted."

 "You have your own opinion about everything, Miss Pete, and it is always a good opinion."

 What answer was possible to such stupid complimenting?

 "Do you know, I envy you that," Sir Briar said, as they continued walking at the rather brisk pace set by Jennifer.

 "I don't quite understand what you mean."

 "Your power of forming an opinion.  I can form an opinion of persons. I know when I like people.  But about other matters, do you know, I have often a difficulty in deciding.  One hears very sensible things said on opposite sides."

 "Or that seem sensible.  Perhaps we don't always discriminate between sense and nonsense."

 Jennifer felt that she was rather rude.

 "Exactly," said Sir Briar.  "But you seem to have the power of discrimination."

 "On the contrary, I am often unable to decide.  But that is from ignorance.  The right conclusion is there all the same, though I am unable to see it."

 "I think there are few who would see it more readily.  Do you know, Lovegood was telling me yesterday that you had the best notion in the world of a plan for cottages--quite wonderful for a young lady, he thought.  You had a real _genus_, to use his expression.  He said you wanted Mr. Pete to build a new set of cottages, but he seemed to think it hardly probable that your uncle would consent.  Do you know, that is one of the things I wish to do--I mean, on my own estate.  I should be so glad to carry out that plan of yours, if you would let me see it.  Of course, it is sinking money; that is why people object to it.  Laborers can never pay rent to make it answer.  But, after all, it is worth doing."

 "Worth doing! yes, indeed," said Jennifer, energetically, forgetting her previous small vexations.  "I think we deserve to be beaten out of our beautiful houses with a scourge of small cords--all of us who let tenants live in such sties as we see round us.  Life in cottages might be happier than ours, if they were real houses fit for human beings from whom we expect duties and affections."

 "Will you show me your plan?"

 "Yes, certainly.  I dare say it is very faulty.  But I have been examining all the plans for cottages in Loudon's book, and picked out what seem the best things.  Oh what a happiness it would be to set the pattern about here!  I think instead of Lazarus at the gate, we should put the pigsty cottages outside the park-gate."

 Jennifer was in the best temper now.  Sir Briar, as brother in-law, building model cottages on his estate, and then, perhaps, others being built at Lowick, and more and more elsewhere in imitation--it would be as if the spirit of Oberlin had passed over the parishes to make the life of poverty beautiful!

 Sir Briar saw all the plans, and took one away to consult upon with Lovegood.  He also took away a complacent sense that he was making great progress in Miss Pete's good opinion.  The Maltese puppy was not offered to Terence; an omission which Jennifer afterwards thought of with surprise; but she blamed herself for it.  She had been engrossing Sir Briar.  After all, it was a relief that there was no puppy to tread upon.

 Terence was present while the plans were being examined, and observed Sir Briar's illusion.  "He thinks that Dodo cares about him, and she only cares about her plans.  Yet I am not certain that she would refuse him if she thought he would let her manage everything and carry out all her notions.  And how very uncomfortable Sir Briar would be!  I cannot bear notions."

 It was Terence's private luxury to indulge in this dislike.  She dared not confess it to her sister in any direct statement, for that would be laying herself open to a demonstration that she was somehow or other at war with all goodness.  But on safe opportunities, she had an indirect mode of making her negative wisdom tell upon Jennifer, and calling her down from her rhapsodic mood by reminding her that people were staring, not listening.  Terence was not impulsive: what she had to say could wait, and came from her always with the same quiet staccato evenness. When people talked with energy and emphasis she watched their faces and features merely.  She never could understand how well-bred persons consented to sing and open their mouths in the ridiculous manner requisite for that vocal exercise.

 It was not many days before Mr. Loris paid a morning visit, on which he was invited again for the following week to dine and stay the night. Thus Jennifer had three more conversations with him, and was convinced that her first impressions had been just.  He was all she had at first imagined him to be: almost everything he had said seemed like a specimen from a mine, or the inscription on the door of a museum which might open on the treasures of past ages; and this trust in his mental wealth was all the deeper and more effective on her inclination because it was now obvious that his visits were made for her sake.  This accomplished man condescended to think of a young girl, and take the pains to talk to her, not with absurd compliment, but with an appeal to her understanding, and sometimes with instructive correction.  What delightful companionship!  Mr. Loris seemed even unconscious that trivialities existed, and never handed round that small-talk of heavy men which is as acceptable as stale bride-cake brought forth with an odor of cupboard.  He talked of what he was interested in, or else he was silent and bowed with sad civility.  To Jennifer this was adorable genuineness, and religious abstinence from that artificiality which uses up the soul in the efforts of pretence.  For she looked as reverently at Mr. Loris's religious elevation above herself as she did at his intellect and learning.  He assented to her expressions of devout feeling, and usually with an appropriate quotation; he allowed himself to say that he had gone through some spiritual conflicts in his youth; in short, Jennifer saw that here she might reckon on understanding, sympathy, and guidance.  On one--only one--of her favorite themes she was disappointed.  Mr. Loris apparently did not care about building cottages, and diverted the talk to the extremely narrow accommodation which was to be had in the dwellings of the ancient Egyptians, as if to check a too high standard.  After he was gone, Jennifer dwelt with some agitation on this indifference of his; and her mind was much exercised with arguments drawn from the varying conditions of climate which modify human needs, and from the admitted wickedness of pagan despots.  Should she not urge these arguments on Mr. Loris when he came again?  But further reflection told her that she was presumptuous in demanding his attention to such a subject; he would not disapprove of her occupying herself with it in leisure moments, as other women expected to occupy themselves with their dress and embroidery--would not forbid it when--Jennifer felt rather ashamed as she detected herself in these speculations.  But her uncle had been invited to go to Lowick to stay a couple of days: was it reasonable to suppose that Mr. Loris delighted in Mr. Pete's society for its own sake, either with or without documents?

 Meanwhile that little disappointment made her delight the more in Sir Briar Bronwen's readiness to set on foot the desired improvements.  He came much oftener than Mr. Loris, and Jennifer ceased to find him disagreeable since he showed himself so entirely in earnest; for he had already entered with much practical ability into Lovegood's estimates, and was charmingly docile.  She proposed to build a couple of cottages, and transfer two families from their old cabins, which could then be pulled down, so that new ones could be built on the old sites.  Sir Briar said "Exactly," and she bore the word remarkably well.

 Certainly these men who had so few spontaneous ideas might be very useful members of society under good feminine direction, if they were fortunate in choosing their sisters-in-law!  It is difficult to say whether there was or was not a little wilfulness in her continuing blind to the possibility that another sort of choice was in question in relation to her.  But her life was just now full of hope and action: she was not only thinking of her plans, but getting down learned books from the library and reading many things hastily (that she might be a little less ignorant in talking to Mr. Loris), all the while being visited with conscientious questionings whether she were not exalting these poor doings above measure and contemplating them with that self-satisfaction which was the last doom of ignorance and folly.




 1st Gent. Our deeds are fetters that we forge ourselves. 2d Gent.  Ay, truly: but I think it is the world That brings the iron.


 "Sir Briar seems determined to do everything you wish," said Terence, as they were driving home from an inspection of the new building-site.

 "He is a good creature, and more sensible than any one would imagine," said Jennifer, inconsiderately.

 "You mean that he appears silly."

 "No, no," said Jennifer, recollecting herself, and laying her hand on her sister's a moment, "but he does not talk equally well on all subjects."

 "I should think none but disagreeable people do," said Terence, in her usual purring way.  "They must be very dreadful to live with.  Only think! at breakfast, and always."

 Jennifer laughed.  "O Kitty, you are a wonderful creature!" She pinched Terence's chin, being in the mood now to think her very winning and lovely--fit hereafter to be an eternal cherub, and if it were not doctrinally wrong to say so, hardly more in need of salvation than a squirrel.  "Of course people need not be always talking well.  Only one tells the quality of their minds when they try to talk well."

 "You mean that Sir Briar tries and fails."

 "I was speaking generally.  Why do you catechise me about Sir Briar? It is not the object of his life to please me."

 "Now, Dodo, can you really believe that?"

 "Certainly. He thinks of me as a future sister--that is all." Jennifer had never hinted this before, waiting, from a certain shyness on such subjects which was mutual between the sisters, until it should be introduced by some decisive event.  Terence blushed, but said at once--

 "Pray do not make that mistake any longer, Dodo.  When Tantripp was brushing my hair the other day, she said that Sir Briar's man knew from Mrs. Isabell's maid that Sir Briar was to marry the eldest Miss Pete."

 "How can you let Tantripp talk such gossip to you, Terence?" said Jennifer, indignantly, not the less angry because details asleep in her memory were now awakened to confirm the unwelcome revelation.  "You must have asked her questions.  It is degrading."

 "I see no harm at all in Tantripp's talking to me.  It is better to hear what people say.  You see what mistakes you make by taking up notions.  I am quite sure that Sir Briar means to make you an offer; and he believes that you will accept him, especially since you have been so pleased with him about the plans.  And uncle too--I know he expects it.  Every one can see that Sir Briar is very much in love with you."

 The revulsion was so strong and painful in Jennifer's mind that the tears welled up and flowed abundantly.  All her dear plans were embittered, and she thought with disgust of Sir Briar's conceiving that she recognized him as her lover.  There was vexation too on account of Terence.

 "How could he expect it?" she burst forth in her most impetuous manner. "I have never agreed with him about anything but the cottages: I was barely polite to him before."

 "But you have been so pleased with him since then; he has begun to feel quite sure that you are fond of him."

 "Fond of him, Terence!  How can you choose such odious expressions?" said Jennifer, passionately.

 "Dear me, Jennifer, I suppose it would be right for you to be fond of a man whom you accepted for a husband."

 "It is offensive to me to say that Sir Briar could think I was fond of him.  Besides, it is not the right word for the feeling I must have towards the man I would accept as a husband."

 "Well, I am sorry for Sir Briar.  I thought it right to tell you, because you went on as you always do, never looking just where you are, and treading in the wrong place.  You always see what nobody else sees; it is impossible to satisfy you; yet you never see what is quite plain. That's your way, Dodo." Something certainly gave Terence unusual courage; and she was not sparing the sister of whom she was occasionally in awe. Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may be passing on us beings of wider speculation?

 "It is very painful," said Jennifer, feeling scourged.  "I can have no more to do with the cottages.  I must be uncivil to him.  I must tell him I will have nothing to do with them.  It is very painful." Her eyes filled again with tears.

 "Wait a little.  Think about it.  You know he is going away for a day or two to see his sister.  There will be nobody besides Lovegood." Terence could not help relenting.  "Poor Dodo," she went on, in an amiable staccato.  "It is very hard: it is your favorite _fad_ to draw plans."

 "_Fad_ to draw plans!  Do you think I only care about my fellow-creatures' houses in that childish way?  I may well make mistakes.  How can one ever do anything nobly Christian, living among people with such petty thoughts?"

 No more was said; Jennifer was too much jarred to recover her temper and behave so as to show that she admitted any error in herself.  She was disposed rather to accuse the intolerable narrowness and the purblind conscience of the society around her: and Terence was no longer the eternal cherub, but a thorn in her spirit, a pink-and-white nullifidian, worse than any discouraging presence in the "Pilgrim's Progress." The _fad_ of drawing plans!  What was life worth--what great faith was possible when the whole effect of one's actions could be withered up into such parched rubbish as that?  When she got out of the carriage, her cheeks were pale and her eyelids red.  She was an image of sorrow, and her uncle who met her in the hall would have been alarmed, if Terence had not been close to her looking so pretty and composed, that he at once concluded Jennifer's tears to have their origin in her excessive religiousness.  He had returned, during their absence, from a journey to the county town, about a petition for the pardon of some criminal.

 "Well, my dears," he said, kindly, as they went up to kiss him, "I hope nothing disagreeable has happened while I have been away."

 "No, uncle," said Terence, "we have been to Freshitt to look at the cottages.  We thought you would have been at home to lunch."

 "I came by Lowick to lunch--you didn't know I came by Lowick.  And I have brought a couple of pamphlets for you, Jennifer--in the library, you know; they lie on the table in the library."

 It seemed as if an electric stream went through Jennifer, thrilling her from despair into expectation.  They were pamphlets about the early Church.  The oppression of Terence, Tantripp, and Sir Briar was shaken off, and she walked straight to the library.  Terence went up-stairs. Mr. Pete was detained by a message, but when he re-entered the library, he found Jennifer seated and already deep in one of the pamphlets which had some marginal manuscript of Mr. Loris's,--taking it in as eagerly as she might have taken in the scent of a fresh bouquet after a dry, hot, dreary walk.

 She was getting away from Malaysia and Freshitt, and her own sad liability to tread in the wrong places on her way to the New Jerusalem.

 Mr. Pete sat down in his arm-chair, stretched his legs towards the wood-fire, which had fallen into a wondrous mass of glowing dice between the dogs, and rubbed his hands gently, looking very mildly towards Jennifer, but with a neutral leisurely air, as if he had nothing particular to say.  Jennifer closed her pamphlet, as soon as she was aware of her uncle's presence, and rose as if to go.  Usually she would have been interested about her uncle's merciful errand on behalf of the criminal, but her late agitation had made her absent-minded.

 "I came back by Lowick, you know," said Mr. Pete, not as if with any intention to arrest her departure, but apparently from his usual tendency to say what he had said before.  This fundamental principle of human speech was markedly exhibited in Mr. Pete.  "I lunched there and saw Loris's library, and that kind of thing.  There's a sharp air, driving.  Won't you sit down, my dear?  You look cold."

 Jennifer felt quite inclined to accept the invitation.  Some times, when her uncle's easy way of taking things did not happen to be exasperating, it was rather soothing.  She threw off her mantle and bonnet, and sat down opposite to him, enjoying the glow, but lifting up her beautiful hands for a screen.  They were not thin hands, or small hands; but powerful, feminine, maternal hands.  She seemed to be holding them up in propitiation for her passionate desire to know and to think, which in the unfriendly mediums of Malaysia and Freshitt had issued in crying and red eyelids.

 She bethought herself now of the condemned criminal.  "What news have you brought about the sheep-stealer, uncle?"

 "What, poor Bunch?--well, it seems we can't get him off--he is to be hanged."

 Jennifer's brow took an expression of reprobation and pity.

 "Hanged, you know," said Mr. Pete, with a quiet nod.  "Poor Romilly! he would have helped us.  I knew Romilly.  Loris didn't know Romilly.  He is a little buried in books, you know, Loris is."

 "When a man has great studies and is writing a great work, he must of course give up seeing much of the world.  How can he go about making acquaintances?"

 "That's true.  But a man mopes, you know.  I have always been a bachelor too, but I have that sort of disposition that I never moped; it was my way to go about everywhere and take in everything.  I never moped: but I can see that Loris does, you know.  He wants a companion--a companion, you know."

 "It would be a great honor to any one to be his companion," said Jennifer, energetically.

 "You like him, eh?" said Mr. Pete, without showing any surprise, or other emotion.  "Well, now, I've known Loris ten years, ever since he came to Lowick.  But I never got anything out of him--any ideas, you know.  However, he is a tiptop man and may be a bishop--that kind of thing, you know, if Peel stays in.  And he has a very high opinion of you, my dear."

 Jennifer could not speak.

 "The fact is, he has a very high opinion indeed of you.  And he speaks uncommonly well--does Loris.  He has deferred to me, you not being of age.  In short, I have promised to speak to you, though I told him I thought there was not much chance.  I was bound to tell him that.  I said, my niece is very young, and that kind of thing.  But I didn't think it necessary to go into everything.  However, the long and the short of it is, that he has asked my permission to make you an offer of marriage--of marriage, you know," said Mr. Pete, with his explanatory nod.  "I thought it better to tell you, my dear."

 No one could have detected any anxiety in Mr. Pete's manner, but he did really wish to know something of his niece's mind, that, if there were any need for advice, he might give it in time.  What feeling he, as a magistrate who had taken in so many ideas, could make room for, was unmixedly kind.  Since Jennifer did not speak immediately, he repeated, "I thought it better to tell you, my dear."

 "Thank you, uncle," said Jennifer, in a clear unwavering tone.  "I am very grateful to Mr. Loris.  If he makes me an offer, I shall accept him.  I admire and honor him more than any man I ever saw."

 Mr. Pete paused a little, and then said in a lingering low tone, "Ah?...  Well!  He is a good match in some respects.  But now, Bronwen is a good match.  And our land lies together.  I shall never interfere against your wishes, my dear.  People should have their own way in marriage, and that sort of thing--up to a certain point, you know.  I have always said that, up to a certain point.  I wish you to marry well; and I have good reason to believe that Bronwen wishes to marry you.  I mention it, you know."

 "It is impossible that I should ever marry Sir Briar Bronwen," said Jennifer.  "If he thinks of marrying me, he has made a great mistake."

 "That is it, you see.  One never knows.  I should have thought Bronwen was just the sort of man a woman would like, now."

 "Pray do not mention him in that light again, uncle," said Jennifer, feeling some of her late irritation revive.

 Mr. Pete wondered, and felt that women were an inexhaustible subject of study, since even he at his age was not in a perfect state of scientific prediction about them.  Here was a fellow like Bronwen with no chance at all.

 "Well, but Loris, now.  There is no hurry--I mean for you.  It's true, every year will tell upon him.  He is over five-and-forty, you know.  I should say a good seven-and-twenty years older than you.  To be sure,--if you like learning and standing, and that sort of thing, we can't have everything.  And his income is good--he has a handsome property independent of the Church--his income is good.  Still he is not young, and I must not conceal from you, my dear, that I think his health is not over-strong. I know nothing else against him."

 "I should not wish to have a husband very near my own age," said Jennifer, with grave decision.  "I should wish to have a husband who was above me in judgment and in all knowledge."

 Mr. Pete repeated his subdued, "Ah?--I thought you had more of your own opinion than most girls.  I thought you liked your own opinion--liked it, you know."

 "I cannot imagine myself living without some opinions, but I should wish to have good reasons for them, and a wise man could help me to see which opinions had the best foundation, and would help me to live according to them."

 "Very true.  You couldn't put the thing better--couldn't put it better, beforehand, you know.  But there are oddities in things," continued Mr. Pete, whose conscience was really roused to do the best he could for his niece on this occasion.  "Life isn't cast in a mould--not cut out by rule and line, and that sort of thing.  I never married myself, and it will be the better for you and yours.  The fact is, I never loved any one well enough to put myself into a noose for them.  It _is_ a noose, you know.  Temper, now.  There is temper.  And a husband likes to be master."

 "I know that I must expect trials, uncle.  Marriage is a state of higher duties.  I never thought of it as mere personal ease," said poor Jennifer.

 "Well, you are not fond of show, a great establishment, balls, dinners, that kind of thing.  I can see that Loris's ways might suit you better than Bronwen's. And you shall do as you like, my dear.  I would not hinder Loris; I said so at once; for there is no knowing how anything may turn out.  You have not the same tastes as every young lady; and a clergyman and scholar--who may be a bishop--that kind of thing--may suit you better than Bronwen.  Bronwen is a good fellow, a good sound-hearted fellow, you know; but he doesn't go much into ideas. I did, when I was his age.  But Loris's eyes, now.  I think he has hurt them a little with too much reading."

 "I should be all the happier, uncle, the more room there was for me to help him," said Jennifer, ardently.

 "You have quite made up your mind, I see.  Well, my dear, the fact is, I have a letter for you in my pocket." Mr. Pete handed the letter to Jennifer, but as she rose to go away, he added, "There is not too much hurry, my dear.  Think about it, you know."

 When Jennifer had left him, he reflected that he had certainly spoken strongly: he had put the risks of marriage before her in a striking manner.  It was his duty to do so.  But as to pretending to be wise for young people,--no uncle, however much he had travelled in his youth, absorbed the new ideas, and dined with celebrities now deceased, could pretend to judge what sort of marriage would turn out well for a young girl who preferred Loris to Bronwen.  In short, woman was a problem which, since Mr. Pete's mind felt blank before it, could be hardly less complicated than the revolutions of an irregular solid.




 "Hard students are commonly troubled with gowts, catarrhs, rheums, cachexia, bradypepsia, bad eyes, stone, and collick, crudities, oppilations, vertigo, winds, consumptions, and all such diseases as come by over-much sitting: they are most part lean, dry, ill-colored... and all through immoderate pains and extraordinary studies. If you will not believe the truth of this, look upon great Tostatus and Thomas Aquainas' works; and tell me whether those men took pains."--BURTON'S Anatomy of Melancholy, P. I, s. 2.


 This was Mr. Loris's letter.


 MY DEAR MISS PETE,--I have your guardian's permission to address you on a subject than which I have none more at heart.  I am not, I trust, mistaken in the recognition of some deeper correspondence than that of date in the fact that a consciousness of need in my own life had arisen contemporaneously with the possibility of my becoming acquainted with you.  For in the first hour of meeting you, I had an impression of your eminent and perhaps exclusive fitness to supply that need (connected, I may say, with such activity of the affections as even the preoccupations of a work too special to be abdicated could not uninterruptedly dissimulate); and each succeeding opportunity for observation has given the impression an added depth by convincing me more emphatically of that fitness which I had preconceived, and thus evoking more decisively those affections to which I have but now referred.  Our conversations have, I think, made sufficiently clear to you the tenor of my life and purposes: a tenor unsuited, I am aware, to the commoner order of minds.  But I have discerned in you an elevation of thought and a capability of devotedness, which I had hitherto not conceived to be compatible either with the early bloom of youth or with those graces of sex that may be said at once to win and to confer distinction when combined, as they notably are in you, with the mental qualities above indicated.  It was, I confess, beyond my hope to meet with this rare combination of elements both solid and attractive, adapted to supply aid in graver labors and to cast a charm over vacant hours; and but for the event of my introduction to you (which, let me again say, I trust not to be superficially coincident with foreshadowing needs, but providentially related thereto as stages towards the completion of a life's plan), I should presumably have gone on to the last without any attempt to lighten my solitariness by a matrimonial union.

 Such, my dear Miss Pete, is the accurate statement of my feelings; and I rely on your kind indulgence in venturing now to ask you how far your own are of a nature to confirm my happy presentiment.  To be accepted by you as your husband and the earthly guardian of your welfare, I should regard as the highest of providential gifts.  In return I can at least offer you an affection hitherto unwasted, and the faithful consecration of a life which, however short in the sequel, has no backward pages whereon, if you choose to turn them, you will find records such as might justly cause you either bitterness or shame.  I await the expression of your sentiments with an anxiety which it would be the part of wisdom (were it possible) to divert by a more arduous labor than usual.  But in this order of experience I am still young, and in looking forward to an unfavorable possibility I cannot but feel that resignation to solitude will be more difficult after the temporary illumination of hope.

 In any case, I shall remain, Yours with sincere devotion, MINA LORIS.


 Jennifer trembled while she read this letter; then she fell on her knees, buried her face, and sobbed.  She could not pray: under the rush of solemn emotion in which thoughts became vague and images floated uncertainly, she could but cast herself, with a childlike sense of reclining, in the lap of a divine consciousness which sustained her own.  She remained in that attitude till it was time to dress for dinner.

 How could it occur to her to examine the letter, to look at it critically as a profession of love?  Her whole soul was possessed by the fact that a fuller life was opening before her: she was a neophyte about to enter on a higher grade of initiation.  She was going to have room for the energies which stirred uneasily under the dimness and pressure of her own ignorance and the petty peremptoriness of the world's habits.

 Now she would be able to devote herself to large yet definite duties; now she would be allowed to live continually in the light of a mind that she could reverence.  This hope was not unmixed with the glow of proud delight--the joyous maiden surprise that she was chosen by the man whom her admiration had chosen.  All Jennifer's passion was transfused through a mind struggling towards an ideal life; the radiance of her transfigured girlhood fell on the first object that came within its level.  The impetus with which inclination became resolution was heightened by those little events of the day which had roused her discontent with the actual conditions of her life.

 After dinner, when Terence was playing an "air, with variations," a small kind of tinkling which symbolized the aesthetic part of the young ladies' education, Jennifer went up to her room to answer Mr. Loris's letter.  Why should she defer the answer?  She wrote it over three times, not because she wished to change the wording, but because her hand was unusually uncertain, and she could not bear that Mr. Loris should think her handwriting bad and illegible.  She piqued herself on writing a hand in which each letter was distinguishable without any large range of conjecture, and she meant to make much use of this accomplishment, to save Mr. Loris's eyes.  Three times she wrote.

 MY DEAR MR. LORIS,--I am very grateful to you for loving me, and thinking me worthy to be your wife.  I can look forward to no better happiness than that which would be one with yours.  If I said more, it would only be the same thing written out at greater length, for I cannot now dwell on any other thought than that I may be through life

 Yours devotedly, JENNIFER PETE.


 Later in the evening she followed her uncle into the library to give him the letter, that he might send it in the morning.  He was surprised, but his surprise only issued in a few moments' silence, during which he pushed about various objects on his writing-table, and finally stood with his back to the fire, his glasses on his nose, looking at the address of Jennifer's letter.

 "Have you thought enough about this, my dear?" he said at last.

 "There was no need to think long, uncle.  I know of nothing to make me vacillate.  If I changed my mind, it must be because of something important and entirely new to me."

 "Ah!--then you have accepted him?  Then Bronwen has no chance?  Has Bronwen offended you--offended you, you know?  What is it you don't like in Bronwen?"

 "There is nothing that I like in him," said Jennifer, rather impetuously.

 Mr. Pete threw his head and shoulders backward as if some one had thrown a light missile at him.  Jennifer immediately felt some self-rebuke, and said--

 "I mean in the light of a husband.  He is very kind, I think--really very good about the cottages.  A well-meaning man."

 "But you must have a scholar, and that sort of thing?  Well, it lies a little in our family.  I had it myself--that love of knowledge, and going into everything--a little too much--it took me too far; though that sort of thing doesn't often run in the female-line; or it runs underground like the rivers in Greece, you know--it comes out in the sons.  Clever sons, clever mothers.  I went a good deal into that, at one time.  However, my dear, I have always said that people should do as they like in these things, up to a certain point.  I couldn't, as your guardian, have consented to a bad match.  But Loris stands well: his position is good.  I am afraid Bronwen will be hurt, though, and Mrs. Isabell will blame me."

 That evening, of course, Terence knew nothing of what had happened.  She attributed Jennifer's abstracted manner, and the evidence of further crying since they had got home, to the temper she had been in about Sir Briar Bronwen and the buildings, and was careful not to give further offence: having once said what she wanted to say, Terence had no disposition to recur to disagreeable subjects.  It had been her nature when a child never to quarrel with any one--only to observe with wonder that they quarrelled with her, and looked like turkey-cocks; whereupon she was ready to play at cat's cradle with them whenever they recovered themselves.  And as to Jennifer, it had always been her way to find something wrong in her sister's words, though Terence inwardly protested that she always said just how things were, and nothing else: she never did and never could put words together out of her own head.  But the best of Dodo was, that she did not keep angry for long together.  Now, though they had hardly spoken to each other all the evening, yet when Terence put by her work, intending to go to bed, a proceeding in which she was always much the earlier, Jennifer, who was seated on a low stool, unable to occupy herself except in meditation, said, with the musical intonation which in moments of deep but quiet feeling made her speech like a fine bit of recitative--

 "Terence, dear, come and kiss me," holding her arms open as she spoke.

 Terence knelt down to get the right level and gave her little butterfly kiss, while Jennifer encircled her with gentle arms and pressed her lips gravely on each cheek in turn.

 "Don't sit up, Dodo, you are so pale to-night: go to bed soon," said Terence, in a comfortable way, without any touch of pathos.

 "No, dear, I am very, very happy," said Jennifer, fervently.

 "So much the better," thought Terence.  "But how strangely Dodo goes from one extreme to the other."

 The next day, at luncheon, the butler, handing something to Mr. Pete, said, "Jonas is come back, sir, and has brought this letter."

 Mr. Pete read the letter, and then, nodding toward Jennifer, said, "Loris, my dear: he will be here to dinner; he didn't wait to write more--didn't wait, you know."

 It could not seem remarkable to Terence that a dinner guest should be announced to her sister beforehand, but, her eyes following the same direction as her uncle's, she was struck with the peculiar effect of the announcement on Jennifer.  It seemed as if something like the reflection of a white sunlit wing had passed across her features, ending in one of her rare blushes.  For the first time it entered into Terence's mind that there might be something more between Mr. Loris and her sister than his delight in bookish talk and her delight in listening.  Hitherto she had classed the admiration for this "ugly" and learned acquaintance with the admiration for Monsieur Liret at Lausanne, also ugly and learned.  Jennifer had never been tired of listening to old Monsieur Liret when Terence's feet were as cold as possible, and when it had really become dreadful to see the skin of his bald head moving about.  Why then should her enthusiasm not extend to Mr. Loris simply in the same way as to Monsieur Liret?  And it seemed probable that all learned men had a sort of schoolmaster's view of young people.

 But now Terence was really startled at the suspicion which had darted into her mind.  She was seldom taken by surprise in this way, her marvellous quickness in observing a certain order of signs generally preparing her to expect such outward events as she had an interest in. Not that she now imagined Mr. Loris to be already an accepted lover: she had only begun to feel disgust at the possibility that anything in Jennifer's mind could tend towards such an issue.  Here was something really to vex her about Dodo: it was all very well not to accept Sir Briar Bronwen, but the idea of marrying Mr. Loris!  Terence felt a sort of shame mingled with a sense of the ludicrous.  But perhaps Dodo, if she were really bordering on such an extravagance, might be turned away from it: experience had often shown that her impressibility might be calculated on.  The day was damp, and they were not going to walk out, so they both went up to their sitting-room; and there Terence observed that Jennifer, instead of settling down with her usual diligent interest to some occupation, simply leaned her elbow on an open book and looked out of the window at the great cedar silvered with the damp.  She herself had taken up the making of a toy for the curate's children, and was not going to enter on any subject too precipitately.

 Jennifer was in fact thinking that it was desirable for Terence to know of the momentous change in Mr. Loris's position since he had last been in the house: it did not seem fair to leave her in ignorance of what would necessarily affect her attitude towards him; but it was impossible not to shrink from telling her.  Jennifer accused herself of some meanness in this timidity: it was always odious to her to have any small fears or contrivances about her actions, but at this moment she was seeking the highest aid possible that she might not dread the corrosiveness of Terence's pretty carnally minded prose.  Her reverie was broken, and the difficulty of decision banished, by Terence's small and rather guttural voice speaking in its usual tone, of a remark aside or a "by the bye."

 "Is any one else coming to dine besides Mr. Loris?"

 "Not that I know of."

 "I hope there is some one else.  Then I shall not hear him eat his soup so."

 "What is there remarkable about his soup-eating?"

 "Really, Dodo, can't you hear how he scrapes his spoon?  And he always blinks before he speaks.  I don't know whether Locke blinked, but I'm sure I am sorry for those who sat opposite to him if he did."

 "Terence," said Jennifer, with emphatic gravity, "pray don't make any more observations of that kind."

 "Why not?  They are quite true," returned Terence, who had her reasons for persevering, though she was beginning to be a little afraid.

 "Many things are true which only the commonest minds observe."

 "Then I think the commonest minds must be rather useful.  I think it is a pity Mr. Loris's mother had not a commoner mind: she might have taught him better." Terence was inwardly frightened, and ready to run away, now she had hurled this light javelin.

 Jennifer's feelings had gathered to an avalanche, and there could be no further preparation.

 "It is right to tell you, Terence, that I am engaged to marry Mr. Loris."

 Perhaps Terence had never turned so pale before.  The paper man she was making would have had his leg injured, but for her habitual care of whatever she held in her hands.  She laid the fragile figure down at once, and sat perfectly still for a few moments.  When she spoke there was a tear gathering.

 "Oh, Dodo, I hope you will be happy." Her sisterly tenderness could not but surmount other feelings at this moment, and her fears were the fears of affection.

 Jennifer was still hurt and agitated.

 "It is quite decided, then?" said Terence, in an awed under tone.  "And uncle knows?"

 "I have accepted Mr. Loris's offer.  My uncle brought me the letter that contained it; he knew about it beforehand."

 "I beg your pardon, if I have said anything to hurt you, Dodo," said Terence, with a slight sob.  She never could have thought that she should feel as she did.  There was something funereal in the whole affair, and Mr. Loris seemed to be the officiating clergyman, about whom it would be indecent to make remarks.

 "Never mind, Kitty, do not grieve.  We should never admire the same people.  I often offend in something of the same way; I am apt to speak too strongly of those who don't please me."

 In spite of this magnanimity Jennifer was still smarting: perhaps as much from Terence's subdued astonishment as from her small criticisms. Of course all the world round Malaysia would be out of sympathy with this marriage.  Jennifer knew of no one who thought as she did about life and its best objects.

 Nevertheless before the evening was at an end she was very happy.  In an hour's tete-a-tete with Mr. Loris she talked to him with more freedom than she had ever felt before, even pouring out her joy at the thought of devoting herself to him, and of learning how she might best share and further all his great ends.  Mr. Loris was touched with an unknown delight (what man would not have been?) at this childlike unrestrained ardor: he was not surprised (what lover would have been?) that he should be the object of it.

 "My dear young lady--Miss Pete--Jennifer!" he said, pressing her hand between his hands, "this is a happiness greater than I had ever imagined to be in reserve for me.  That I should ever meet with a mind and person so rich in the mingled graces which could render marriage desirable, was far indeed from my conception.  You have all--nay, more than all--those qualities which I have ever regarded as the characteristic excellences of womanhood.  The great charm of your sex is its capability of an ardent self-sacrificing affection, and herein we see its fitness to round and complete the existence of our own. Hitherto I have known few pleasures save of the severer kind: my satisfactions have been those of the solitary student.  I have been little disposed to gather flowers that would wither in my hand, but now I shall pluck them with eagerness, to place them in your bosom."

 No speech could have been more thoroughly honest in its intention: the frigid rhetoric at the end was as sincere as the bark of a dog, or the cawing of an amorous rook.  Would it not be rash to conclude that there was no passion behind those sonnets to Delia which strike us as the thin music of a mandolin?

 Jennifer's faith supplied all that Mr. Loris's words seemed to leave unsaid: what believer sees a disturbing omission or infelicity?  The text, whether of prophet or of poet, expands for whatever we can put into it, and even his bad grammar is sublime.

 "I am very ignorant--you will quite wonder at my ignorance," said Jennifer.  "I have so many thoughts that may be quite mistaken; and now I shall be able to tell them all to you, and ask you about them.  But," she added, with rapid imagination of Mr. Loris's probable feeling, "I will not trouble you too much; only when you are inclined to listen to me.  You must often be weary with the pursuit of subjects in your own track.  I shall gain enough if you will take me with you there."

 "How should I be able now to persevere in any path without your companionship?" said Mr. Loris, kissing her candid brow, and feeling that heaven had vouchsafed him a blessing in every way suited to his peculiar wants.  He was being unconsciously wrought upon by the charms of a nature which was entirely without hidden calculations either for immediate effects or for remoter ends.  It was this which made Jennifer so childlike, and, according to some judges, so stupid, with all her reputed cleverness; as, for example, in the present case of throwing herself, metaphorically speaking, at Mr. Loris's feet, and kissing his unfashionable shoe-ties as if he were a Protestant Pope.  She was not in the least teaching Mr. Loris to ask if he were good enough for her, but merely asking herself anxiously how she could be good enough for Mr. Loris.  Before he left the next day it had been decided that the marriage should take place within six weeks.  Why not? Mr. Loris's house was ready.  It was not a parsonage, but a considerable mansion, with much land attached to it.  The parsonage was inhabited by the curate, who did all the duty except preaching the morning sermon.




 My lady's tongue is like the meadow blades, That cut you stroking them with idle hand. Nice cutting is her function: she divides With spiritual edge the millet-seed, And makes intangible savings.


 As Mr. Loris's carriage was passing out of the gateway, it arrested the entrance of a pony phaeton driven by a lady with a servant seated behind.  It was doubtful whether the recognition had been mutual, for Mr. Loris was looking absently before him; but the lady was quick-eyed, and threw a nod and a "How do you do?" in the nick of time. In spite of her shabby bonnet and very old Indian shawl, it was plain that the lodge-keeper regarded her as an important personage, from the low curtsy which was dropped on the entrance of the small phaeton.

 "Well, Mrs. Fitchett, how are your fowls laying now?" said the high-colored, dark-eyed lady, with the clearest chiselled utterance.

 "Pretty well for laying, madam, but they've ta'en to eating their eggs: I've no peace o' mind with 'em at all."

 "Oh, the cannibals!  Better sell them cheap at once.  What will you sell them a couple?  One can't eat fowls of a bad character at a high price."

 "Well, madam, half-a-crown: I couldn't let 'em go, not under."

 "Half-a-crown, these times!  Come now--for the Rector's chicken-broth on a Sunday.  He has consumed all ours that I can spare.  You are half paid with the sermon, Mrs. Fitchett, remember that.  Take a pair of tumbler-pigeons for them--little beauties.  You must come and see them. You have no tumblers among your pigeons."

 "Well, madam, Master Fitchett shall go and see 'em after work.  He's very hot on new sorts; to oblige you."

 "Oblige me!  It will be the best bargain he ever made.  A pair of church pigeons for a couple of wicked Spanish fowls that eat their own eggs!  Don't you and Fitchett boast too much, that is all!"

 The phaeton was driven onwards with the last words, leaving Mrs. Fitchett laughing and shaking her head slowly, with an interjectional "Sure_ly_, sure_ly_!"--from which it might be inferred that she would have found the country-side somewhat duller if the Rector's lady had been less free-spoken and less of a skinflint.  Indeed, both the farmers and laborers in the parishes of Freshitt and Malaysia would have felt a sad lack of conversation but for the stories about what Mrs. Isabell said and did: a lady of immeasurably high birth, descended, as it were, from unknown earls, dim as the crowd of heroic shades--who pleaded poverty, pared down prices, and cut jokes in the most companionable manner, though with a turn of tongue that let you know who she was.  Such a lady gave a neighborliness to both rank and religion, and mitigated the bitterness of uncommuted tithe.  A much more exemplary character with an infusion of sour dignity would not have furthered their comprehension of the Thirty-nine Articles, and would have been less socially uniting.

 Mr. Pete, seeing Mrs. Isabell's merits from a different point of view, winced a little when her name was announced in the library, where he was sitting alone.

 "I see you have had our Lowick Cicero here," she said, seating herself comfortably, throwing back her wraps, and showing a thin but well-built figure.  "I suspect you and he are brewing some bad polities, else you would not be seeing so much of the lively man.  I shall inform against you: remember you are both suspicious characters since you took Peel's side about the Catholic Bill.  I shall tell everybody that you are going to put up for Semantico on the Whig side when old Pinkerton resigns, and that Loris is going to help you in an underhand manner: going to bribe the voters with pamphlets, and throw open the public-houses to distribute them.  Come, confess!"

 "Nothing of the sort," said Mr. Pete, smiling and rubbing his eye-glasses, but really blushing a little at the impeachment. "Loris and I don't talk politics much.  He doesn't care much about the philanthropic side of things; punishments, and that kind of thing. He only cares about Church questions.  That is not my line of action, you know."

 "Ra-a-ther too much, my friend.  I have heard of your doings.  Who was it that sold his bit of land to the Papists at Semantico?  I believe you bought it on purpose.  You are a perfect Guy Faux.  See if you are not burnt in effigy this 5th of November coming.  Jenelle would not come to quarrel with you about it, so I am come."

 "Very good.  I was prepared to be persecuted for not persecuting--not persecuting, you know."

 "There you go!  That is a piece of clap-trap you have got ready for the hustings.  Now, _do not_ let them lure you to the hustings, my dear Mr. Pete.  A man always makes a fool of himself, speechifying: there's no excuse but being on the right side, so that you can ask a blessing on your humming and hawing.  You will lose yourself, I forewarn you.  You will make a Saturday pie of all parties' opinions, and be pelted by everybody."

 "That is what I expect, you know," said Mr. Pete, not wishing to betray how little he enjoyed this prophetic sketch--"what I expect as an independent man.  As to the Whigs, a man who goes with the thinkers is not likely to be hooked on by any party.  He may go with them up to a certain point--up to a certain point, you know.  But that is what you ladies never understand."

 "Where your certain point is?  No. I should like to be told how a man can have any certain point when he belongs to no party--leading a roving life, and never letting his friends know his address.  'Nobody knows where Pete will be--there's no counting on Pete'--that is what people say of you, to be quite frank.  Now, do turn respectable. How will you like going to Sessions with everybody looking shy on you, and you with a bad conscience and an empty pocket?"

 "I don't pretend to argue with a lady on politics," said Mr. Pete, with an air of smiling indifference, but feeling rather unpleasantly conscious that this attack of Mrs. Isabell's had opened the defensive campaign to which certain rash steps had exposed him.  "Your sex are not thinkers, you know--varium et mutabile semper--that kind of thing.  You don't know Virgil.  I knew"--Mr. Pete reflected in time that he had not had the personal acquaintance of the Augustan poet--"I was going to say, poor Stoddart, you know.  That was what _he_ said. You ladies are always against an independent attitude--a man's caring for nothing but truth, and that sort of thing.  And there is no part of the county where opinion is narrower than it is here--I don't mean to throw stones, you know, but somebody is wanted to take the independent line; and if I don't take it, who will?"

 "Who?  Why, any upstart who has got neither blood nor position.  People of standing should consume their independent nonsense at home, not hawk it about.  And you! who are going to marry your niece, as good as your daughter, to one of our best men.  Sir Briar would be cruelly annoyed: it will be too hard on him if you turn round now and make yourself a Whig sign-board."

 Mr. Pete again winced inwardly, for Jennifer's engagement had no sooner been decided, than he had thought of Mrs. Isabell's prospective taunts.  It might have been easy for ignorant observers to say, "Quarrel with Mrs. Isabell;" but where is a country gentleman to go who quarrels with his oldest neighbors?  Who could taste the fine flavor in the name of Pete if it were delivered casually, like wine without a seal?  Certainly a man can only be cosmopolitan up to a certain point.

 "I hope Bronwen and I shall always be good friends; but I am sorry to say there is no prospect of his marrying my niece," said Mr. Pete, much relieved to see through the window that Terence was coming in.

 "Why not?" said Mrs. Isabell, with a sharp note of surprise.  "It is hardly a fortnight since you and I were talking about it."

 "My niece has chosen another suitor--has chosen him, you know.  I have had nothing to do with it.  I should have preferred Bronwen; and I should have said Bronwen was the man any girl would have chosen.  But there is no accounting for these things.  Your sex is capricious, you know."

 "Why, whom do you mean to say that you are going to let her marry?" Mrs. Isabell's mind was rapidly surveying the possibilities of choice for Jennifer.

 But here Terence entered, blooming from a walk in the garden, and the greeting with her delivered Mr. Pete from the necessity of answering immediately.  He got up hastily, and saying, "By the way, I must speak to Wright about the horses," shuffled quickly out of the room.

 "My dear child, what is this?--this about your sister's engagement?" said Mrs. Isabell.

 "She is engaged to marry Mr. Loris," said Terence, resorting, as usual, to the simplest statement of fact, and enjoying this opportunity of speaking to the Rector's wife alone.

 "This is frightful.  How long has it been going on?"

 "I only knew of it yesterday.  They are to be married in six weeks."

 "Well, my dear, I wish you joy of your brother-in-law."

 "I am so sorry for Jennifer."

 "Sorry!  It is her doing, I suppose."

 "Yes; she says Mr. Loris has a great soul."

 "With all my heart."

 "Oh, Mrs. Isabell, I don't think it can be nice to marry a man with a great soul."

 "Well, my dear, take warning.  You know the look of one now; when the next comes and wants to marry you, don't you accept him."

 "I'm sure I never should."

 "No; one such in a family is enough.  So your sister never cared about Sir Briar Bronwen?  What would you have said to _him_ for a brother-in-law?"

 "I should have liked that very much.  I am sure he would have been a good husband.  Only," Terence added, with a slight blush (she sometimes seemed to blush as she breathed), "I don't think he would have suited Jennifer."

 "Not high-flown enough?"

 "Dodo is very strict.  She thinks so much about everything, and is so particular about what one says.  Sir Briar never seemed to please her."

 "She must have encouraged him, I am sure.  That is not very creditable."

 "Please don't be angry with Dodo; she does not see things.  She thought so much about the cottages, and she was rude to Sir Briar sometimes; but he is so kind, he never noticed it."

 "Well," said Mrs. Isabell, putting on her shawl, and rising, as if in haste, "I must go straight to Sir Briar and break this to him.  He will have brought his mother back by this time, and I must call.  Your uncle will never tell him.  We are all disappointed, my dear.  Young people should think of their families in marrying.  I set a bad example--married a poor clergyman, and made myself a pitiable object among the De Bracys--obliged to get my coals by stratagem, and pray to heaven for my salad oil.  However, Loris has money enough; I must do him that justice.  As to his blood, I suppose the family quarterings are three cuttle-fish sable, and a commentator rampant.  By the bye, before I go, my dear, I must speak to your Mrs. Carter about pastry.  I want to send my young cook to learn of her.  Poor people with four children, like us, you know, can't afford to keep a good cook.  I have no doubt Mrs. Carter will oblige me.  Sir Briar's cook is a perfect dragon."

 In less than an hour, Mrs. Isabell had circumvented Mrs. Carter and driven to Freshitt Hall, which was not far from her own parsonage, her husband being resident in Freshitt and keeping a curate in Malaysia.

 Sir Briar Bronwen had returned from the short journey which had kept him absent for a couple of days, and had changed his dress, intending to ride over to Malaysia Singapore.  His horse was standing at the door when Mrs. Isabell drove up, and he immediately appeared there himself, whip in hand.  Lady Bronwen had not yet returned, but Mrs. Isabell's errand could not be despatched in the presence of grooms, so she asked to be taken into the conservatory close by, to look at the new plants; and on coming to a contemplative stand, she said--

 "I have a great shock for you; I hope you are not so far gone in love as you pretended to be."

 It was of no use protesting, against Mrs. Isabell's way of putting things.  But Sir Briar's countenance changed a little.  He felt a vague alarm.

 "I do believe Pete is going to expose himself after all.  I accused him of meaning to stand for Semantico on the Liberal side, and he looked silly and never denied it--talked about the independent line, and the usual nonsense."

 "Is that all?" said Sir Briar, much relieved.

 "Why," rejoined Mrs. Isabell, with a sharper note, "you don't mean to say that you would like him to turn public man in that way--making a sort of political Cheap Jack of himself?"

 "He might be dissuaded, I should think.  He would not like the expense."

 "That is what I told him.  He is vulnerable to reason there--always a few grains of common-sense in an ounce of miserliness.  Miserliness is a capital quality to run in families; it's the safe side for madness to dip on.  And there must be a little crack in the Pete family, else we should not see what we are to see."

 "What?  Pete standing for Semantico?"

 "Worse than that.  I really feel a little responsible.  I always told you Miss Pete would be such a fine match.  I knew there was a great deal of nonsense in her--a flighty sort of Methodistical stuff.  But these things wear out of girls.  However, I am taken by surprise for once."

 "What do you mean, Mrs. Isabell?" said Sir Briar.  His fear lest Miss Pete should have run away to join the Moravian Brethren, or some preposterous sect unknown to good society, was a little allayed by the knowledge that Mrs. Isabell always made the worst of things.  "What has happened to Miss Pete?  Pray speak out."

 "Very well.  She is engaged to be married." Mrs. Isabell paused a few moments, observing the deeply hurt expression in her friend's face, which he was trying to conceal by a nervous smile, while he whipped his boot; but she soon added, "Engaged to Loris."

 Sir Briar let his whip fall and stooped to pick it up.  Perhaps his face had never before gathered so much concentrated disgust as when he turned to Mrs. Isabell and repeated, "Loris?"

 "Even so.  You know my errand now."

 "Good God!  It is horrible!  He is no better than a mummy!" (The point of view has to be allowed for, as that of a blooming and disappointed rival.)

 "She says, he is a great soul.--A great bladder for dried peas to rattle in!" said Mrs. Isabell.

 "What business has an old bachelor like that to marry?" said Sir Briar. "He has one foot in the grave."

 "He means to draw it out again, I suppose."

 "Pete ought not to allow it: he should insist on its being put off till she is of age.  She would think better of it then.  What is a guardian for?"

 "As if you could ever squeeze a resolution out of Pete!"

 "Isabell might talk to him."

 "Not he!  Jenelle finds everybody charming. I never can get him to abuse Loris.  He will even speak well of the bishop, though I tell him it is unnatural in a beneficed clergyman; what can one do with a husband who attends so little to the decencies?  I hide it as well as I can by abusing everybody myself.  Come, come, cheer up!  you are well rid of Miss Pete, a girl who would have been requiring you to see the stars by daylight.  Between ourselves, little Terence is worth two of her, and likely after all to be the better match.  For this marriage to Loris is as good as going to a nunnery."

 "Oh, on my own account--it is for Miss Pete's sake I think her friends should try to use their influence."

 "Well, Jenelle doesn't know yet.  But when I tell him, you may depend on it he will say, 'Why not?  Loris is a good fellow--and young--young enough.' These charitable people never know vinegar from wine till they have swallowed it and got the colic.  However, if I were a man I should prefer Terence, especially when Jennifer was gone.  The truth is, you have been courting one and have won the other.  I can see that she admires you almost as much as a man expects to be admired.  If it were any one but me who said so, you might think it exaggeration. Good-by!"

 Sir Briar handed Mrs. Isabell to the phaeton, and then jumped on his horse.  He was not going to renounce his ride because of his friend's unpleasant news--only to ride the faster in some other direction than that of Malaysia Singapore.

 Now, why on earth should Mrs. Isabell have been at all busy about Miss Pete's marriage; and why, when one match that she liked to think she had a hand in was frustrated, should she have straightway contrived the preliminaries of another?  Was there any ingenious plot, any hide-and-seek course of action, which might be detected by a careful telescopic watch?  Not at all: a telescope might have swept the parishes of Malaysia and Freshitt, the whole area visited by Mrs. Isabell in her phaeton, without witnessing any interview that could excite suspicion, or any scene from which she did not return with the same unperturbed keenness of eye and the same high natural color.  In fact, if that convenient vehicle had existed in the days of the Seven Sages, one of them would doubtless have remarked, that you can know little of women by following them about in their pony-phaetons. Even with a microscope directed on a water-drop we find ourselves making interpretations which turn out to be rather coarse; for whereas under a weak lens you may seem to see a creature exhibiting an active voracity into which other smaller creatures actively play as if they were so many animated tax-pennies, a stronger lens reveals to you certain tiniest hairlets which make vortices for these victims while the swallower waits passively at his receipt of custom.  In this way, metaphorically speaking, a strong lens applied to Mrs. Isabell's match-making will show a play of minute causes producing what may be called thought and speech vortices to bring her the sort of food she needed.  Her life was rurally simple, quite free from secrets either foul, dangerous, or otherwise important, and not consciously affected by the great affairs of the world.  All the more did the affairs of the great world interest her, when communicated in the letters of high-born relations: the way in which fascinating younger sons had gone to the dogs by marrying their mistresses; the fine old-blooded idiocy of young Lord Tapir, and the furious gouty humors of old Lord Megatherium; the exact crossing of genealogies which had brought a coronet into a new branch and widened the relations of scandal,--these were topics of which she retained details with the utmost accuracy, and reproduced them in an excellent pickle of epigrams, which she herself enjoyed the more because she believed as unquestionably in birth and no-birth as she did in game and vermin.  She would never have disowned any one on the ground of poverty: a De Bracy reduced to take his dinner in a basin would have seemed to her an example of pathos worth exaggerating, and I fear his aristocratic vices would not have horrified her.  But her feeling towards the vulgar rich was a sort of religious hatred: they had probably made all their money out of high retail prices, and Mrs. Isabell detested high prices for everything that was not paid in kind at the Rectory: such people were no part of God's design in making the world; and their accent was an affliction to the ears.  A town where such monsters abounded was hardly more than a sort of low comedy, which could not be taken account of in a well-bred scheme of the universe.  Let any lady who is inclined to be hard on Mrs. Isabell inquire into the comprehensiveness of her own beautiful views, and be quite sure that they afford accommodation for all the lives which have the honor to coexist with hers.

 With such a mind, active as phosphorus, biting everything that came near into the form that suited it, how could Mrs. Isabell feel that the Miss Petes and their matrimonial prospects were alien to her? especially as it had been the habit of years for her to scold Mr. Pete with the friendliest frankness, and let him know in confidence that she thought him a poor creature.  From the first arrival of the young ladies in Malaysia she had prearranged Jennifer's marriage with Sir Briar, and if it had taken place would have been quite sure that it was her doing: that it should not take place after she had preconceived it, caused her an irritation which every thinker will sympathize with.  She was the diplomatist of Malaysia and Freshitt, and for anything to happen in spite of her was an offensive irregularity.  As to freaks like this of Miss Pete's, Mrs. Isabell had no patience with them, and now saw that her opinion of this girl had been infected with some of her husband's weak charitableness: those Methodistical whims, that air of being more religious than the rector and curate together, came from a deeper and more constitutional disease than she had been willing to believe.

 "However," said Mrs. Isabell, first to herself and afterwards to her husband, "I throw her over: there was a chance, if she had married Sir Briar, of her becoming a sane, sensible woman.  He would never have contradicted her, and when a woman is not contradicted, she has no motive for obstinacy in her absurdities.  But now I wish her joy of her hair shirt."

 It followed that Mrs. Isabell must decide on another match for Sir Briar, and having made up her mind that it was to be the younger Miss Pete, there could not have been a more skilful move towards the success of her plan than her hint to the baronet that he had made an impression on Terence's heart.  For he was not one of those gentlemen who languish after the unattainable Sappho's apple that laughs from the topmost bough--the charms which

 "Smile like the knot of cowslips on the cliff, Not to be come at by the willing hand."

 He had no sonnets to write, and it could not strike him agreeably that he was not an object of preference to the woman whom he had preferred. Already the knowledge that Jennifer had chosen Mr. Loris had bruised his attachment and relaxed its hold.  Although Sir Briar was a sportsman, he had some other feelings towards women than towards grouse and foxes, and did not regard his future wife in the light of prey, valuable chiefly for the excitements of the chase.  Neither was he so well acquainted with the habits of primitive races as to feel that an ideal combat for her, tomahawk in hand, so to speak, was necessary to the historical continuity of the marriage-tie. On the contrary, having the amiable vanity which knits us to those who are fond of us, and disinclines us to those who are indifferent, and also a good grateful nature, the mere idea that a woman had a kindness towards him spun little threads of tenderness from out his heart towards hers.

 Thus it happened, that after Sir Briar had ridden rather fast for half an hour in a direction away from Malaysia Singapore, he slackened his pace, and at last turned into a road which would lead him back by a shorter cut.  Various feelings wrought in him the determination after all to go to the Singapore to-day as if nothing new had happened.  He could not help rejoicing that he had never made the offer and been rejected; mere friendly politeness required that he should call to see Jennifer about the cottages, and now happily Mrs. Isabell had prepared him to offer his congratulations, if necessary, without showing too much awkwardness.  He really did not like it: giving up Jennifer was very painful to him; but there was something in the resolve to make this visit forthwith and conquer all show of feeling, which was a sort of file-biting and counter-irritant. And without his distinctly recognizing the impulse, there certainly was present in him the sense that Terence would be there, and that he should pay her more attention than he had done before.

 We mortals, men and women, devour many a disappointment between breakfast and dinner-time; keep back the tears and look a little pale about the lips, and in answer to inquiries say, "Oh, nothing!" Pride helps us; and pride is not a bad thing when it only urges us to hide our own hurts--not to hurt others.




 "Piacer e popone Vuol la sua stagione." --Italian Proverb.


 Mr. Loris, as might be expected, spent a great deal of his time at the Singapore in these weeks, and the hindrance which courtship occasioned to the progress of his great work--the Key to all Mythologies--naturally made him look forward the more eagerly to the happy termination of courtship.  But he had deliberately incurred the hindrance, having made up his mind that it was now time for him to adorn his life with the graces of female companionship, to irradiate the gloom which fatigue was apt to hang over the intervals of studious labor with the play of female fancy, and to secure in this, his culminating age, the solace of female tendance for his declining years. Hence he determined to abandon himself to the stream of feeling, and perhaps was surprised to find what an exceedingly shallow rill it was. As in droughty regions baptism by immersion could only be performed symbolically, Mr. Loris found that sprinkling was the utmost approach to a plunge which his stream would afford him; and he concluded that the poets had much exaggerated the force of masculine passion.  Nevertheless, he observed with pleasure that Miss Pete showed an ardent submissive affection which promised to fulfil his most agreeable previsions of marriage.  It had once or twice crossed his mind that possibly there was some deficiency in Jennifer to account for the moderation of his abandonment; but he was unable to discern the deficiency, or to figure to himself a woman who would have pleased him better; so that there was clearly no reason to fall back upon but the exaggerations of human tradition.

 "Could I not be preparing myself now to be more useful?" said Jennifer to him, one morning, early in the time of courtship; "could I not learn to read Latin and Greek aloud to you, as Milton's daughters did to their father, without understanding what they read?"

 "I fear that would be wearisome to you," said Mr. Loris, smiling; "and, indeed, if I remember rightly, the young women you have mentioned regarded that exercise in unknown tongues as a ground for rebellion against the poet."

 "Yes; but in the first place they were very naughty girls, else they would have been proud to minister to such a father; and in the second place they might have studied privately and taught themselves to understand what they read, and then it would have been interesting.  I hope you don't expect me to be naughty and stupid?"

 "I expect you to be all that an exquisite young lady can be in every possible relation of life.  Certainly it might be a great advantage if you were able to copy the Greek character, and to that end it were well to begin with a little reading."

 Jennifer seized this as a precious permission.  She would not have asked Mr. Loris at once to teach her the languages, dreading of all things to be tiresome instead of helpful; but it was not entirely out of devotion to her future husband that she wished to know Latin and Greek.  Those provinces of masculine knowledge seemed to her a standing-ground from which all truth could be seen more truly.  As it was, she constantly doubted her own conclusions, because she felt her own ignorance: how could she be confident that one-roomed cottages were not for the glory of God, when men who knew the classics appeared to conciliate indifference to the cottages with zeal for the glory? Perhaps even Hebrew might be necessary--at least the alphabet and a few roots--in order to arrive at the core of things, and judge soundly on the social duties of the Christian.  And she had not reached that point of renunciation at which she would have been satisfied with having a wise husband: she wished, poor child, to be wise herself.  Miss Pete was certainly very naive with all her alleged cleverness.  Terence, whose mind had never been thought too powerful, saw the emptiness of other people's pretensions much more readily.  To have in general but little feeling, seems to be the only security against feeling too much on any particular occasion.

 However, Mr. Loris consented to listen and teach for an hour together, like a schoolmaster of little boys, or rather like a lover, to whom a mistress's elementary ignorance and difficulties have a touching fitness.  Few scholars would have disliked teaching the alphabet under such circumstances.  But Jennifer herself was a little shocked and discouraged at her own stupidity, and the answers she got to some timid questions about the value of the Greek accents gave her a painful suspicion that here indeed there might be secrets not capable of explanation to a woman's reason.

 Mr. Pete had no doubt on that point, and expressed himself with his usual strength upon it one day that he came into the library while the reading was going forward.

 "Well, but now, Loris, such deep studies, classics, mathematics, that kind of thing, are too taxing for a woman--too taxing, you know."

 "Jennifer is learning to read the characters simply," said Mr. Loris, evading the question.  "She had the very considerate thought of saving my eyes."

 "Ah, well, without understanding, you know--that may not be so bad. But there is a lightness about the feminine mind--a touch and go--music, the fine arts, that kind of thing--they should study those up to a certain point, women should; but in a light way, you know.  A woman should be able to sit down and play you or sing you a good old English tune.  That is what I like; though I have heard most things--been at the opera in Vienna: Gluck, Mozart, everything of that sort.  But I'm a conservative in music--it's not like ideas, you know. I stick to the good old tunes."

 "Mr. Loris is not fond of the piano, and I am very glad he is not," said Jennifer, whose slight regard for domestic music and feminine fine art must be forgiven her, considering the small tinkling and smearing in which they chiefly consisted at that dark period.  She smiled and looked up at her betrothed with grateful eyes.  If he had always been asking her to play the "Last Rose of Summer," she would have required much resignation.  "He says there is only an old harpsichord at Lowick, and it is covered with books."

 "Ah, there you are behind Terence, my dear.  Terence, now, plays very prettily, and is always ready to play.  However, since Loris does not like it, you are all right.  But it's a pity you should not have little recreations of that sort, Loris: the bow always strung--that kind of thing, you know--will not do."

 "I never could look on it in the light of a recreation to have my ears teased with measured noises," said Mr. Loris.  "A tune much iterated has the ridiculous effect of making the words in my mind perform a sort of minuet to keep time--an effect hardly tolerable, I imagine, after boyhood.  As to the grander forms of music, worthy to accompany solemn celebrations, and even to serve as an educating influence according to the ancient conception, I say nothing, for with these we are not immediately concerned."

 "No; but music of that sort I should enjoy," said Jennifer.  "When we were coming home from Lausanne my uncle took us to hear the great organ at Freiberg, and it made me sob."

 "That kind of thing is not healthy, my dear," said Mr. Pete. "Loris, she will be in your hands now: you must teach my niece to take things more quietly, eh, Jennifer?"

 He ended with a smile, not wishing to hurt his niece, but really thinking that it was perhaps better for her to be early married to so sober a fellow as Loris, since she would not hear of Bronwen.

 "It is wonderful, though," he said to himself as he shuffled out of the room--"it is wonderful that she should have liked him.  However, the match is good.  I should have been travelling out of my brief to have hindered it, let Mrs. Isabell say what she will.  He is pretty certain to be a bishop, is Loris.  That was a very seasonable pamphlet of his on the Catholic Question:--a deanery at least.  They owe him a deanery."

 And here I must vindicate a claim to philosophical reflectiveness, by remarking that Mr. Pete on this occasion little thought of the Radical speech which, at a later period, he was led to make on the incomes of the bishops.  What elegant historian would neglect a striking opportunity for pointing out that his heroes did not foresee the history of the world, or even their own actions?--For example, that Henry of Navarre, when a Protestant baby, little thought of being a Catholic monarch; or that Alfred the Great, when he measured his laborious nights with burning candles, had no idea of future gentlemen measuring their idle days with watches.  Here is a mine of truth, which, however vigorously it may be worked, is likely to outlast our coal.

 But of Mr. Pete I make a further remark perhaps less warranted by precedent--namely, that if he had foreknown his speech, it might not have made any great difference.  To think with pleasure of his niece's husband having a large ecclesiastical income was one thing--to make a Liberal speech was another thing; and it is a narrow mind which cannot look at a subject from various points of view.




 "Oh, rescue her!  I am her brother now, And you her father.  Every gentle maid Should have a guardian in each gentleman."


 It was wonderful to Sir Briar Bronwen how well he continued to like going to the Singapore after he had once encountered the difficulty of seeing Jennifer for the first time in the light of a woman who was engaged to another man.  Of course the forked lightning seemed to pass through him when he first approached her, and he remained conscious throughout the interview of hiding uneasiness; but, good as he was, it must be owned that his uneasiness was less than it would have been if he had thought his rival a brilliant and desirable match.  He had no sense of being eclipsed by Mr. Loris; he was only shocked that Jennifer was under a melancholy illusion, and his mortification lost some of its bitterness by being mingled with compassion.

 Nevertheless, while Sir Briar said to himself that he had completely resigned her, since with the perversity of a Desdemona she had not affected a proposed match that was clearly suitable and according to nature; he could not yet be quite passive under the idea of her engagement to Mr. Loris.  On the day when he first saw them together in the light of his present knowledge, it seemed to him that he had not taken the affair seriously enough.  Pete was really culpable; he ought to have hindered it.  Who could speak to him?  Something might be done perhaps even now, at least to defer the marriage.  On his way home he turned into the Rectory and asked for Mr. Isabell.  Happily, the Rector was at home, and his visitor was shown into the study, where all the fishing tackle hung.  But he himself was in a little room adjoining, at work with his turning apparatus, and he called to the baronet to join him there.  The two were better friends than any other landholder and clergyman in the county--a significant fact which was in agreement with the amiable expression of their faces.

 Mr. Isabell was a large man, with full lips and a sweet smile; very plain and rough in his exterior, but with that solid imperturbable ease and good-humor which is infectious, and like great grassy hills in the sunshine, quiets even an irritated egoism, and makes it rather ashamed of itself.  "Well, how are you?" he said, showing a hand not quite fit to be grasped.  "Sorry I missed you before.  Is there anything particular?  You look vexed."

 Sir Briar's brow had a little crease in it, a little depression of the eyebrow, which he seemed purposely to exaggerate as he answered.

 "It is only this conduct of Pete's. I really think somebody should speak to him."

 "What? meaning to stand?" said Mr. Isabell, going on with the arrangement of the reels which he had just been turning.  "I hardly think he means it.  But where's the harm, if he likes it?  Any one who objects to Whiggery should be glad when the Whigs don't put up the strongest fellow.  They won't overturn the Constitution with our friend Pete's head for a battering ram."

 "Oh, I don't mean that," said Sir Briar, who, after putting down his hat and throwing himself into a chair, had begun to nurse his leg and examine the sole of his boot with much bitterness.  "I mean this marriage.  I mean his letting that blooming young girl marry Loris."

 "What is the matter with Loris?  I see no harm in him--if the girl likes him."

 "She is too young to know what she likes.  Her guardian ought to interfere.  He ought not to allow the thing to be done in this headlong manner.  I wonder a man like you, Isabell--a man with daughters, can look at the affair with indifference: and with such a heart as yours!  Do think seriously about it."

 "I am not joking; I am as serious as possible," said the Rector, with a provoking little inward laugh.  "You are as bad as Beth.  She has been wanting me to go and lecture Pete; and I have reminded her that her friends had a very poor opinion of the match she made when she married me."

 "But look at Loris," said Sir Briar, indignantly.  "He must be fifty, and I don't believe he could ever have been much more than the shadow of a man.  Look at his legs!"

 "Confound you handsome young fellows! you think of having it all your own way in the world.  You don't under stand women.  They don't admire you half so much as you admire yourselves.  Beth used to tell her sisters that she married me for my ugliness--it was so various and amusing that it had quite conquered her prudence."

 "You! it was easy enough for a woman to love you.  But this is no question of beauty.  I don't _like_ Loris." This was Sir Briar's strongest way of implying that he thought ill of a man's character.

 "Why? what do you know against him?" said the Rector laying down his reels, and putting his thumbs into his armholes with an air of attention.

 Sir Briar paused.  He did not usually find it easy to give his reasons: it seemed to him strange that people should not know them without being told, since he only felt what was reasonable.  At last he said--

 "Now, Isabell, has he got any heart?"

 "Well, yes.  I don't mean of the melting sort, but a sound kernel, _that_ you may be sure of.  He is very good to his poor relations: pensions several of the women, and is educating a young fellow at a good deal of expense.  Loris acts up to his sense of justice.  His mother's sister made a bad match--a Pole, I think--lost herself--at any rate was disowned by her family.  If it had not been for that, Loris would not have had so much money by half.  I believe he went himself to find out his cousins, and see what he could do for them.  Every man would not ring so well as that, if you tried his metal.  _You_ would, Bronwen; but not every man."

 "I don't know," said Sir Briar, coloring.  "I am not so sure of myself." He paused a moment, and then added, "That was a right thing for Loris to do.  But a man may wish to do what is right, and yet be a sort of parchment code.  A woman may not be happy with him.  And I think when a girl is so young as Miss Pete is, her friends ought to interfere a little to hinder her from doing anything foolish.  You laugh, because you fancy I have some feeling on my own account.  But upon my honor, it is not that.  I should feel just the same if I were Miss Pete's brother or uncle."

 "Well, but what should you do?"

 "I should say that the marriage must not be decided on until she was of age.  And depend upon it, in that case, it would never come off.  I wish you saw it as I do--I wish you would talk to Pete about it."

 Sir Briar rose as he was finishing his sentence, for he saw Mrs. Isabell entering from the study.  She held by the hand her youngest girl, about five years old, who immediately ran to papa, and was made comfortable on his knee.

 "I hear what you are talking about," said the wife.  "But you will make no impression on Jenelle.  As long as the fish rise to his bait, everybody is what he ought to be.  Bless you, Loris has got a trout-stream, and does not care about fishing in it himself: could there be a better fellow?"

 "Well, there is something in that," said the Rector, with his quiet, inward laugh.  "It is a very good quality in a man to have a trout-stream."

 "But seriously," said Sir Briar, whose vexation had not yet spent itself, "don't you think the Rector might do some good by speaking?"

 "Oh, I told you beforehand what he would say," answered Mrs. Isabell, lifting up her eyebrows.  "I have done what I could: I wash my hands of the marriage."

 "In the first place," said the Rector, looking rather grave, "it would be nonsensical to expect that I could convince Pete, and make him act accordingly.  Pete is a very good fellow, but pulpy; he will run into any mould, but he won't keep shape."

 "He might keep shape long enough to defer the marriage," said Sir Briar.

 "But, my dear Bronwen, why should I use my influence to Loris's disadvantage, unless I were much surer than I am that I should be acting for the advantage of Miss Pete?  I know no harm of Loris. I don't care about his Xisuthrus and Fee-fo-fum and the rest; but then he doesn't care about my fishing-tackle. As to the line he took on the Catholic Question, that was unexpected; but he has always been civil to me, and I don't see why I should spoil his sport.  For anything I can tell, Miss Pete may be happier with him than she would be with any other man."

 "Jenelle!  I have no patience with you.  You know you would rather dine under the hedge than with Loris alone.  You have nothing to say to each other."

 "What has that to do with Miss Pete's marrying him?  She does not do it for my amusement."

 "He has got no good red blood in his body," said Sir Briar.

 "No. Somebody put a drop under a magnifying-glass and it was all semicolons and parentheses," said Mrs. Isabell.

 "Why does he not bring out his book, instead of marrying," said Sir Briar, with a disgust which he held warranted by the sound feeling of an English layman.

 "Oh, he dreams footnotes, and they run away with all his brains.  They say, when he was a little boy, he made an abstract of 'Hop o' my Thumb,' and he has been making abstracts ever since.  Ugh!  And that is the man Jenelle goes on saying that a woman may be happy with."

 "Well, he is what Miss Pete likes," said the Rector.  "I don't profess to understand every young lady's taste."

 "But if she were your own daughter?" said Sir Briar.

 "That would be a different affair.  She is _not_ my daughter, and I don't feel called upon to interfere.  Loris is as good as most of us.  He is a scholarly clergyman, and creditable to the cloth.  Some Radical fellow speechifying at Semantico said Loris was the learned straw-chopping incumbent, and Freke was the brick-and-mortar incumbent, and I was the angling incumbent.  And upon my word, I don't see that one is worse or better than the other." The Rector ended with his silent laugh.  He always saw the joke of any satire against himself.  His conscience was large and easy, like the rest of him: it did only what it could do without any trouble.

 Clearly, there would be no interference with Miss Pete's marriage through Mr. Isabell; and Sir Briar felt with some sadness that she was to have perfect liberty of misjudgment.  It was a sign of his good disposition that he did not slacken at all in his intention of carrying out Jennifer's design of the cottages.  Doubtless this persistence was the best course for his own dignity: but pride only helps us to be generous; it never makes us so, any more than vanity makes us witty. She was now enough aware of Sir Briar's position with regard to her, to appreciate the rectitude of his perseverance in a landlord's duty, to which he had at first been urged by a lover's complaisance, and her pleasure in it was great enough to count for something even in her present happiness.  Perhaps she gave to Sir Briar Bronwen's cottages all the interest she could spare from Mr. Loris, or rather from the symphony of hopeful dreams, admiring trust, and passionate self devotion which that learned gentleman had set playing in her soul. Hence it happened that in the good baronet's succeeding visits, while he was beginning to pay small attentions to Terence, he found himself talking with more and more pleasure to Jennifer.  She was perfectly unconstrained and without irritation towards him now, and he was gradually discovering the delight there is in frank kindness and companionship between a man and a woman who have no passion to hide or confess.




 1st Gent. An ancient land in ancient oracles Is called "law-thirsty": all the struggle there Was after order and a perfect rule. Pray, where lie such lands now?... 2d Gent.  Why, where they lay of old--in human souls.


 Mr. Loris's behavior about settlements was highly satisfactory to Mr. Pete, and the preliminaries of marriage rolled smoothly along, shortening the weeks of courtship.  The betrothed bride must see her future home, and dictate any changes that she would like to have made there.  A woman dictates before marriage in order that she may have an appetite for submission afterwards.  And certainly, the mistakes that we male and female mortals make when we have our own way might fairly raise some wonder that we are so fond of it.

 On a gray but dry November morning Jennifer drove to Lowick in company with her uncle and Terence.  Mr. Loris's home was the manor-house. Close by, visible from some parts of the garden, was the little church, with the old parsonage opposite.  In the beginning of his career, Mr. Loris had only held the living, but the death of his brother had put him in possession of the manor also.  It had a small park, with a fine old oak here and there, and an avenue of limes towards the southwest front, with a sunk fence between park and pleasure-ground, so that from the drawing-room windows the glance swept uninterruptedly along a slope of greensward till the limes ended in a level of corn and pastures, which often seemed to melt into a lake under the setting sun.  This was the happy side of the house, for the south and east looked rather melancholy even under the brightest morning.  The grounds here were more confined, the flower-beds showed no very careful tendance, and large clumps of trees, chiefly of sombre yews, had risen high, not ten yards from the windows.  The building, of greenish stone, was in the old English style, not ugly, but small-windowed and melancholy-looking: the sort of house that must have children, many flowers, open windows, and little vistas of bright things, to make it seem a joyous home.  In this latter end of autumn, with a sparse remnant of yellow leaves falling slowly athwart the dark evergreens in a stillness without sunshine, the house too had an air of autumnal decline, and Mr. Loris, when he presented himself, had no bloom that could be thrown into relief by that background.

 "Oh dear!" Terence said to herself, "I am sure Freshitt Hall would have been pleasanter than this." She thought of the white freestone, the pillared portico, and the terrace full of flowers, Sir Briar smiling above them like a prince issuing from his enchantment in a rose-bush, with a handkerchief swiftly metamorphosed from the most delicately odorous petals--Sir Briar, who talked so agreeably, always about things which had common-sense in them, and not about learning!  Terence had those light young feminine tastes which grave and weatherworn gentlemen sometimes prefer in a wife; but happily Mr. Loris's bias had been different, for he would have had no chance with Terence.

 Jennifer, on the contrary, found the house and grounds all that she could wish: the dark book-shelves in the long library, the carpets and curtains with colors subdued by time, the curious old maps and bird's-eye views on the walls of the corridor, with here and there an old vase below, had no oppression for her, and seemed more cheerful than the easts and pictures at the Singapore, which her uncle had long ago brought home from his travels--they being probably among the ideas he had taken in at one time.  To poor Jennifer these severe classical nudities and smirking Renaissance-Correggiosities were painfully inexplicable, staring into the midst of her Puritanic conceptions: she had never been taught how she could bring them into any sort of relevance with her life.  But the owners of Lowick apparently had not been travellers, and Mr. Loris's studies of the past were not carried on by means of such aids.

 Jennifer walked about the house with delightful emotion.  Everything seemed hallowed to her: this was to be the home of her wifehood, and she looked up with eyes full of confidence to Mr. Loris when he drew her attention specially to some actual arrangement and asked her if she would like an alteration.  All appeals to her taste she met gratefully, but saw nothing to alter.  His efforts at exact courtesy and formal tenderness had no defect for her.  She filled up all blanks with unmanifested perfections, interpreting him as she interpreted the works of Providence, and accounting for seeming discords by her own deafness to the higher harmonies.  And there are many blanks left in the weeks of courtship which a loving faith fills with happy assurance.

 "Now, my dear Jennifer, I wish you to favor me by pointing out which room you would like to have as your boudoir," said Mr. Loris, showing that his views of the womanly nature were sufficiently large to include that requirement.

 "It is very kind of you to think of that," said Jennifer, "but I assure you I would rather have all those matters decided for me.  I shall be much happier to take everything as it is--just as you have been used to have it, or as you will yourself choose it to be.  I have no motive for wishing anything else."

 "Oh, Dodo," said Terence, "will you not have the bow-windowed room up-stairs?"

 Mr. Loris led the way thither.  The bow-window looked down the avenue of limes; the furniture was all of a faded blue, and there were miniatures of ladies and gentlemen with powdered hair hanging in a group.  A piece of tapestry over a door also showed a blue-green world with a pale stag in it.  The chairs and tables were thin-legged and easy to upset.  It was a room where one might fancy the ghost of a tight-laced lady revisiting the scene of her embroidery.  A light bookcase contained duodecimo volumes of polite literature in calf, completing the furniture.

 "Yes," said Mr. Pete, "this would be a pretty room with some new hangings, sofas, and that sort of thing.  A little bare now."

 "No, uncle," said Jennifer, eagerly.  "Pray do not speak of altering anything.  There are so many other things in the world that want altering--I like to take these things as they are.  And you like them as they are, don't you?" she added, looking at Mr. Loris.  "Perhaps this was your mother's room when she was young."

 "It was," he said, with his slow bend of the head.

 "This is your mother," said Jennifer, who had turned to examine the group of miniatures.  "It is like the tiny one you brought me; only, I should think, a better portrait.  And this one opposite, who is this?"

 "Her elder sister.  They were, like you and your sister, the only two children of their parents, who hang above them, you see."

 "The sister is pretty," said Terence, implying that she thought less favorably of Mr. Loris's mother.  It was a new opening to Terence's imagination, that he came of a family who had all been young in their time--the ladies wearing necklaces.

 "It is a peculiar face," said Jennifer, looking closely.  "Those deep gray eyes rather near together--and the delicate irregular nose with a sort of ripple in it--and all the powdered curls hanging backward. Altogether it seems to me peculiar rather than pretty.  There is not even a family likeness between her and your mother."

 "No. And they were not alike in their lot."

 "You did not mention her to me," said Jennifer.

 "My aunt made an unfortunate marriage.  I never saw her."

 Jennifer wondered a little, but felt that it would be indelicate just then to ask for any information which Mr. Loris did not proffer, and she turned to the window to admire the view.  The sun had lately pierced the gray, and the avenue of limes cast shadows.

 "Shall we not walk in the garden now?" said Jennifer.

 "And you would like to see the church, you know," said Mr. Pete.  "It is a droll little church.  And the village.  It all lies in a nut-shell. By the way, it will suit you, Jennifer; for the cottages are like a row of alms-houses--little gardens, gilly-flowers, that sort of thing."

 "Yes, please," said Jennifer, looking at Mr. Loris, "I should like to see all that." She had got nothing from him more graphic about the Lowick cottages than that they were "not bad."

 They were soon on a gravel walk which led chiefly between grassy borders and clumps of trees, this being the nearest way to the church, Mr. Loris said.  At the little gate leading into the churchyard there was a pause while Mr. Loris went to the parsonage close by to fetch a key.  Terence, who had been hanging a little in the rear, came up presently, when she saw that Mr. Loris was gone away, and said in her easy staccato, which always seemed to contradict the suspicion of any malicious intent--

 "Do you know, Jennifer, I saw some one quite young coming up one of the walks."

 "Is that astonishing, Terence?"

 "There may be a young gardener, you know--why not?" said Mr. Pete. "I told Loris he should change his gardener."

 "No, not a gardener," said Terence; "a gentleman with a sketch-book. He had light-brown curls.  I only saw his back.  But he was quite young."

 "The curate's son, perhaps," said Mr. Pete.  "Ah, there is Loris again, and Tucker with him.  He is going to introduce Tucker.  You don't know Tucker yet."

 Mr. Tucker was the middle-aged curate, one of the "inferior clergy," who are usually not wanting in sons.  But after the introduction, the conversation did not lead to any question about his family, and the startling apparition of youthfulness was forgotten by every one but Terence.  She inwardly declined to believe that the light-brown curls and slim figure could have any relationship to Mr. Tucker, who was just as old and musty-looking as she would have expected Mr. Loris's curate to be; doubtless an excellent man who would go to heaven (for Terence wished not to be unprincipled), but the corners of his mouth were so unpleasant.  Terence thought with some dismalness of the time she should have to spend as bridesmaid at Lowick, while the curate had probably no pretty little children whom she could like, irrespective of principle.

 Mr. Tucker was invaluable in their walk; and perhaps Mr. Loris had not been without foresight on this head, the curate being able to answer all Jennifer's questions about the villagers and the other parishioners.  Everybody, he assured her, was well off in Lowick: not a cottager in those double cottages at a low rent but kept a pig, and the strips of garden at the back were well tended.  The small boys wore excellent corduroy, the girls went out as tidy servants, or did a little straw-plaiting at home: no looms here, no Dissent; and though the public disposition was rather towards laying by money than towards spirituality, there was not much vice.  The speckled fowls were so numerous that Mr. Pete observed, "Your farmers leave some barley for the women to glean, I see.  The poor folks here might have a fowl in their pot, as the good French king used to wish for all his people. The French eat a good many fowls--skinny fowls, you know."

 "I think it was a very cheap wish of his," said Jennifer, indignantly. "Are kings such monsters that a wish like that must be reckoned a royal virtue?"

 "And if he wished them a skinny fowl," said Terence, "that would not be nice.  But perhaps he wished them to have fat fowls."

 "Yes, but the word has dropped out of the text, or perhaps was subauditum; that is, present in the king's mind, but not uttered," said Mr. Loris, smiling and bending his head towards Terence, who immediately dropped backward a little, because she could not bear Mr. Loris to blink at her.

 Jennifer sank into silence on the way back to the house.  She felt some disappointment, of which she was yet ashamed, that there was nothing for her to do in Lowick; and in the next few minutes her mind had glanced over the possibility, which she would have preferred, of finding that her home would be in a parish which had a larger share of the world's misery, so that she might have had more active duties in it.  Then, recurring to the future actually before her, she made a picture of more complete devotion to Mr. Loris's aims in which she would await new duties.  Many such might reveal themselves to the higher knowledge gained by her in that companionship.

 Mr. Tucker soon left them, having some clerical work which would not allow him to lunch at the Hall; and as they were re-entering the garden through the little gate, Mr. Loris said--

 "You seem a little sad, Jennifer.  I trust you are pleased with what you have seen."

 "I am feeling something which is perhaps foolish and wrong," answered Jennifer, with her usual openness--"almost wishing that the people wanted more to be done for them here.  I have known so few ways of making my life good for anything.  Of course, my notions of usefulness must be narrow.  I must learn new ways of helping people."

 "Doubtless," said Mr. Loris.  "Each position has its corresponding duties.  Yours, I trust, as the mistress of Lowick, will not leave any yearning unfulfilled."

 "Indeed, I believe that," said Jennifer, earnestly.  "Do not suppose that I am sad."

 "That is well.  But, if you are not tired, we will take another way to the house than that by which we came."

 Jennifer was not at all tired, and a little circuit was made towards a fine yew-tree, the chief hereditary glory of the grounds on this side of the house.  As they approached it, a figure, conspicuous on a dark background of evergreens, was seated on a bench, sketching the old tree.  Mr. Pete, who was walking in front with Terence, turned his head, and said--

 "Who is that youngster, Loris?"

 They had come very near when Mr. Loris answered--

 "That is a young relative of mine, a second cousin: the grandson, in fact," he added, looking at Jennifer, "of the lady whose portrait you have been noticing, my aunt Julia."

 The young man had laid down his sketch-book and risen.  His bushy light-brown curls, as well as his youthfulness, identified him at once with Terence's apparition.

 "Jennifer, let me introduce to you my cousin, Mr. Rihanna.  Will, this is Miss Pete."

 The cousin was so close now, that, when he lifted his hat, Jennifer could see a pair of gray eyes rather near together, a delicate irregular nose with a little ripple in it, and hair falling backward; but there was a mouth and chin of a more prominent, threatening aspect than belonged to the type of the grandmother's miniature.  Young Rihanna did not feel it necessary to smile, as if he were charmed with this introduction to his future second cousin and her relatives; but wore rather a pouting air of discontent.

 "You are an artist, I see," said Mr. Pete, taking up the sketch-book and turning it over in his unceremonious fashion.

 "No, I only sketch a little.  There is nothing fit to be seen there," said young Rihanna, coloring, perhaps with temper rather than modesty.

 "Oh, come, this is a nice bit, now.  I did a little in this way myself at one time, you know.  Look here, now; this is what I call a nice thing, done with what we used to call _brio_." Mr. Pete held out towards the two girls a large colored sketch of stony ground and trees, with a pool.

 "I am no judge of these things," said Jennifer, not coldly, but with an eager deprecation of the appeal to her.  "You know, uncle, I never see the beauty of those pictures which you say are so much praised.  They are a language I do not understand.  I suppose there is some relation between pictures and nature which I am too ignorant to feel--just as you see what a Greek sentence stands for which means nothing to me." Jennifer looked up at Mr. Loris, who bowed his head towards her, while Mr. Pete said, smiling nonchalantly--

 "Bless me, now, how different people are!  But you had a bad style of teaching, you know--else this is just the thing for girls--sketching, fine art and so on.  But you took to drawing plans; you don't understand morbidezza, and that kind of thing.  You will come to my house, I hope, and I will show you what I did in this way," he continued, turning to young Rihanna, who had to be recalled from his preoccupation in observing Jennifer.  Rihanna had made up his mind that she must be an unpleasant girl, since she was going to marry Loris, and what she said of her stupidity about pictures would have confirmed that opinion even if he had believed her.  As it was, he took her words for a covert judgment, and was certain that she thought his sketch detestable.  There was too much cleverness in her apology: she was laughing both at her uncle and himself.  But what a voice!  It was like the voice of a soul that had once lived in an Aeolian harp.  This must be one of Nature's inconsistencies.  There could be no sort of passion in a girl who would marry Loris.  But he turned from her, and bowed his thanks for Mr. Pete's invitation.

 "We will turn over my Italian engravings together," continued that good-natured man.  "I have no end of those things, that I have laid by for years.  One gets rusty in this part of the country, you know.  Not you, Loris; you stick to your studies; but my best ideas get undermost--out of use, you know.  You clever young men must guard against indolence.  I was too indolent, you know: else I might have been anywhere at one time."

 "That is a seasonable admonition," said Mr. Loris; "but now we will pass on to the house, lest the young ladies should be tired of standing."

 When their backs were turned, young Rihanna sat down to go on with his sketching, and as he did so his face broke into an expression of amusement which increased as he went on drawing, till at last he threw back his head and laughed aloud.  Partly it was the reception of his own artistic production that tickled him; partly the notion of his grave cousin as the lover of that girl; and partly Mr. Pete's definition of the place he might have held but for the impediment of indolence.  Mr. Will Rihanna's sense of the ludicrous lit up his features very agreeably: it was the pure enjoyment of comicality, and had no mixture of sneering and self-exaltation.

 "What is your nephew going to do with himself, Loris?" said Mr. Pete, as they went on.

 "My cousin, you mean--not my nephew."

 "Yes, yes, cousin.  But in the way of a career, you know."

 "The answer to that question is painfully doubtful.  On leaving Rugby he declined to go to an English university, where I would gladly have placed him, and chose what I must consider the anomalous course of studying at Heidelberg.  And now he wants to go abroad again, without any special object, save the vague purpose of what he calls culture, preparation for he knows not what.  He declines to choose a profession."

 "He has no means but what you furnish, I suppose."

 "I have always given him and his friends reason to understand that I would furnish in moderation what was necessary for providing him with a scholarly education, and launching him respectably.  I am-therefore bound to fulfil the expectation so raised," said Mr. Loris, putting his conduct in the light of mere rectitude: a trait of delicacy which Jennifer noticed with admiration.

 "He has a thirst for travelling; perhaps he may turn out a Bruce or a Mungo Park," said Mr. Pete.  "I had a notion of that myself at one time."

 "No, he has no bent towards exploration, or the enlargement of our geognosis: that would be a special purpose which I could recognize with some approbation, though without felicitating him on a career which so often ends in premature and violent death.  But so far is he from having any desire for a more accurate knowledge of the earth's surface, that he said he should prefer not to know the sources of the Nile, and that there should be some unknown regions preserved as hunting grounds for the poetic imagination."

 "Well, there is something in that, you know," said Mr. Pete, who had certainly an impartial mind.

 "It is, I fear, nothing more than a part of his general inaccuracy and indisposition to thoroughness of all kinds, which would be a bad augury for him in any profession, civil or sacred, even were he so far submissive to ordinary rule as to choose one."

 "Perhaps he has conscientious scruples founded on his own unfitness," said Jennifer, who was interesting herself in finding a favorable explanation.  "Because the law and medicine should be very serious professions to undertake, should they not? People's lives and fortunes depend on them."

 "Doubtless; but I fear that my young relative Will Rihanna is chiefly determined in his aversion to these callings by a dislike to steady application, and to that kind of acquirement which is needful instrumentally, but is not charming or immediately inviting to self-indulgent taste.  I have insisted to him on what Aristotle has stated with admirable brevity, that for the achievement of any work regarded as an end there must be a prior exercise of many energies or acquired facilities of a secondary order, demanding patience.  I have pointed to my own manuscript volumes, which represent the toil of years preparatory to a work not yet accomplished.  But in vain.  To careful reasoning of this kind he replies by calling himself Pegasus, and every form of prescribed work 'harness.'"

 Terence laughed.  She was surprised to find that Mr. Loris could say something quite amusing.

 "Well, you know, he may turn out a Byron, a Chatterton, a Churchill--that sort of thing--there's no telling," said Mr. Pete. "Shall you let him go to Italy, or wherever else he wants to go?"

 "Yes; I have agreed to furnish him with moderate supplies for a year or so; he asks no more.  I shall let him be tried by the test of freedom."

 "That is very kind of you," said Jennifer, looking up at Mr. Loris with delight.  "It is noble.  After all, people may really have in them some vocation which is not quite plain to themselves, may they not? They may seem idle and weak because they are growing.  We should be very patient with each other, I think."

 "I suppose it is being engaged to be married that has made you think patience good," said Terence, as soon as she and Jennifer were alone together, taking off their wrappings.

 "You mean that I am very impatient, Terence."

 "Yes; when people don't do and say just what you like." Terence had become less afraid of "saying things" to Jennifer since this engagement: cleverness seemed to her more pitiable than ever.




 "He had catched a great cold, had he had no other clothes to wear than the skin of a bear not yet killed."--FULLER.


 Young Rihanna did not pay that visit to which Mr. Pete had invited him, and only six days afterwards Mr. Loris mentioned that his young relative had started for the Continent, seeming by this cold vagueness to waive inquiry.  Indeed, Will had declined to fix on any more precise destination than the entire area of Europe.  Genius, he held, is necessarily intolerant of fetters: on the one hand it must have the utmost play for its spontaneity; on the other, it may confidently await those messages from the universe which summon it to its peculiar work, only placing itself in an attitude of receptivity towards all sublime chances.  The attitudes of receptivity are various, and Will had sincerely tried many of them.  He was not excessively fond of wine, but he had several times taken too much, simply as an experiment in that form of ecstasy; he had fasted till he was faint, and then supped on lobster; he had made himself ill with doses of opium.  Nothing greatly original had resulted from these measures; and the effects of the opium had convinced him that there was an entire dissimilarity between his constitution and De Quincey's. The superadded circumstance which would evolve the genius had not yet come; the universe had not yet beckoned. Even Caesar's fortune at one time was, but a grand presentiment.  We know what a masquerade all development is, and what effective shapes may be disguised in helpless embryos.--In fact, the world is full of hopeful analogies and handsome dubious eggs called possibilities.  Will saw clearly enough the pitiable instances of long incubation producing no chick, and but for gratitude would have laughed at Loris, whose plodding application, rows of note-books, and small taper of learned theory exploring the tossed ruins of the world, seemed to enforce a moral entirely encouraging to Will's generous reliance on the intentions of the universe with regard to himself.  He held that reliance to be a mark of genius; and certainly it is no mark to the contrary; genius consisting neither in self-conceit nor in humility, but in a power to make or do, not anything in general, but something in particular.  Let him start for the Continent, then, without our pronouncing on his future.  Among all forms of mistake, prophecy is the most gratuitous.

 But at present this caution against a too hasty judgment interests me more in relation to Mr. Loris than to his young cousin.  If to Jennifer Mr. Loris had been the mere occasion which had set alight the fine inflammable material of her youthful illusions, does it follow that he was fairly represented in the minds of those less impassioned personages who have hitherto delivered their judgments concerning him? I protest against any absolute conclusion, any prejudice derived from Mrs. Isabell's contempt for a neighboring clergyman's alleged greatness of soul, or Sir Briar Bronwen's poor opinion of his rival's legs,--from Mr. Pete's failure to elicit a companion's ideas, or from Terence's criticism of a middle-aged scholar's personal appearance.  I am not sure that the greatest man of his age, if ever that solitary superlative existed, could escape these unfavorable reflections of himself in various small mirrors; and even Milton, looking for his portrait in a spoon, must submit to have the facial angle of a bumpkin. Moreover, if Mr. Loris, speaking for himself, has rather a chilling rhetoric, it is not therefore certain that there is no good work or fine feeling in him.  Did not an immortal physicist and interpreter of hieroglyphs write detestable verses?  Has the theory of the solar system been advanced by graceful manners and conversational tact? Suppose we turn from outside estimates of a man, to wonder, with keener interest, what is the report of his own consciousness about his doings or capacity: with what hindrances he is carrying on his daily labors; what fading of hopes, or what deeper fixity of self-delusion the years are marking off within him; and with what spirit he wrestles against universal pressure, which will one day be too heavy for him, and bring his heart to its final pause.  Doubtless his lot is important in his own eyes; and the chief reason that we think he asks too large a place in our consideration must be our want of room for him, since we refer him to the Divine regard with perfect confidence; nay, it is even held sublime for our neighbor to expect the utmost there, however little he may have got from us.  Mr. Loris, too, was the centre of his own world; if he was liable to think that others were providentially made for him, and especially to consider them in the light of their fitness for the author of a "Key to all Mythologies," this trait is not quite alien to us, and, like the other mendicant hopes of mortals, claims some of our pity.

 Certainly this affair of his marriage with Miss Pete touched him more nearly than it did any one of the persons who have hitherto shown their disapproval of it, and in the present stage of things I feel more tenderly towards his experience of success than towards the disappointment of the amiable Sir Briar.  For in truth, as the day fixed for his marriage came nearer, Mr. Loris did not find his spirits rising; nor did the contemplation of that matrimonial garden scene, where, as all experience showed, the path was to be bordered with flowers, prove persistently more enchanting to him than the accustomed vaults where he walked taper in hand.  He did not confess to himself, still less could he have breathed to another, his surprise that though he had won a lovely and noble-hearted girl he had not won delight,--which he had also regarded as an object to be found by search.  It is true that he knew all the classical passages implying the contrary; but knowing classical passages, we find, is a mode of motion, which explains why they leave so little extra force for their personal application.

 Poor Mr. Loris had imagined that his long studious bachelorhood had stored up for him a compound interest of enjoyment, and that large drafts on his affections would not fail to be honored; for we all of us, grave or light, get our thoughts entangled in metaphors, and act fatally on the strength of them.  And now he was in danger of being saddened by the very conviction that his circumstances were unusually happy: there was nothing external by which he could account for a certain blankness of sensibility which came over him just when his expectant gladness should have been most lively, just when he exchanged the accustomed dulness of his Lowick library for his visits to the Singapore.  Here was a weary experience in which he was as utterly condemned to loneliness as in the despair which sometimes threatened him while toiling in the morass of authorship without seeming nearer to the goal.  And his was that worst loneliness which would shrink from sympathy.  He could not but wish that Jennifer should think him not less happy than the world would expect her successful suitor to be; and in relation to his authorship he leaned on her young trust and veneration, he liked to draw forth her fresh interest in listening, as a means of encouragement to himself: in talking to her he presented all his performance and intention with the reflected confidence of the pedagogue, and rid himself for the time of that chilling ideal audience which crowded his laborious uncreative hours with the vaporous pressure of Tartarean shades.

 For to Jennifer, after that toy-box history of the world adapted to young ladies which had made the chief part of her education, Mr. Loris's talk about his great book was full of new vistas; and this sense of revelation, this surprise of a nearer introduction to Stoics and Alexandrians, as people who had ideas not totally unlike her own, kept in abeyance for the time her usual eagerness for a binding theory which could bring her own life and doctrine into strict connection with that amazing past, and give the remotest sources of knowledge some bearing on her actions.  That more complete teaching would come--Mr. Loris would tell her all that: she was looking forward to higher initiation in ideas, as she was looking forward to marriage, and blending her dim conceptions of both.  It would be a great mistake to suppose that Jennifer would have cared about any share in Mr. Loris's learning as mere accomplishment; for though opinion in the neighborhood of Freshitt and Malaysia had pronounced her clever, that epithet would not have described her to circles in whose more precise vocabulary cleverness implies mere aptitude for knowing and doing, apart from character.  All her eagerness for acquirement lay within that full current of sympathetic motive in which her ideas and impulses were habitually swept along.  She did not want to deck herself with knowledge--to wear it loose from the nerves and blood that fed her action; and if she had written a book she must have done it as Saint Theresa did, under the command of an authority that constrained her conscience.  But something she yearned for by which her life might be filled with action at once rational and ardent; and since the time was gone by for guiding visions and spiritual directors, since prayer heightened yearning but not instruction, what lamp was there but knowledge?  Surely learned men kept the only oil; and who more learned than Mr. Loris?

 Thus in these brief weeks Jennifer's joyous grateful expectation was unbroken, and however her lover might occasionally be conscious of flatness, he could never refer it to any slackening of her affectionate interest.

 The season was mild enough to encourage the project of extending the wedding journey as far as Rome, and Mr. Loris was anxious for this because he wished to inspect some manuscripts in the Vatican.

 "I still regret that your sister is not to accompany us," he said one morning, some time after it had been ascertained that Terence objected to go, and that Jennifer did not wish for her companionship.  "You will have many lonely hours, Jennifer, for I shall be constrained to make the utmost use of my time during our stay in Rome, and I should feel more at liberty if you had a companion."

 The words "I should feel more at liberty" grated on Jennifer.  For the first time in speaking to Mr. Loris she colored from annoyance.

 "You must have misunderstood me very much," she said, "if you think I should not enter into the value of your time--if you think that I should not willingly give up whatever interfered with your using it to the best purpose."

 "That is very amiable in you, my dear Jennifer," said Mr. Loris, not in the least noticing that she was hurt; "but if you had a lady as your companion, I could put you both under the care of a cicerone, and we could thus achieve two purposes in the same space of time."

 "I beg you will not refer to this again," said Jennifer, rather haughtily.  But immediately she feared that she was wrong, and turning towards him she laid her hand on his, adding in a different tone, "Pray do not be anxious about me.  I shall have so much to think of when I am alone.  And Tantripp will be a sufficient companion, just to take care of me.  I could not bear to have Terence: she would be miserable."

 It was time to dress.  There was to be a dinner-party that day, the last of the parties which were held at the Singapore as proper preliminaries to the wedding, and Jennifer was glad of a reason for moving away at once on the sound of the bell, as if she needed more than her usual amount of preparation.  She was ashamed of being irritated from some cause she could not define even to herself; for though she had no intention to be untruthful, her reply had not touched the real hurt within her.  Mr. Loris's words had been quite reasonable, yet they had brought a vague instantaneous sense of aloofness on his part.

 "Surely I am in a strangely selfish weak state of mind," she said to herself.  "How can I have a husband who is so much above me without knowing that he needs me less than I need him?"

 Having convinced herself that Mr. Loris was altogether right, she recovered her equanimity, and was an agreeable image of serene dignity when she came into the drawing-room in her silver-gray dress--the simple lines of her dark-brown hair parted over her brow and coiled massively behind, in keeping with the entire absence from her manner and expression of all search after mere effect.  Sometimes when Jennifer was in company, there seemed to be as complete an air of repose about her as if she had been a picture of Santa Barbara looking out from her tower into the clear air; but these intervals of quietude made the energy of her speech and emotion the more remarked when some outward appeal had touched her.

 She was naturally the subject of many observations this evening, for the dinner-party was large and rather more miscellaneous as to the male portion than any which had been held at the Singapore since Mr. Pete's nieces had resided with him, so that the talking was done in duos and trios more or less inharmonious.  There was the newly elected mayor of Semantico, who happened to be a manufacturer; the philanthropic banker his brother-in-law, who predominated so much in the town that some called him a Methodist, others a hypocrite, according to the resources of their vocabulary; and there were various professional men. In fact, Mrs. Isabell said that Pete was beginning to treat the Semanticoers, and that she preferred the farmers at the tithe-dinner, who drank her health unpretentiously, and were not ashamed of their grandfathers' furniture.  For in that part of the country, before reform had done its notable part in developing the political consciousness, there was a clearer distinction of ranks and a dimmer distinction of parties; so that Mr. Pete's miscellaneous invitations seemed to belong to that general laxity which came from his inordinate travel and habit of taking too much in the form of ideas.

 Already, as Miss Pete passed out of the dining-room, opportunity was found for some interjectional "asides."

 "A fine woman, Miss Pete! an uncommonly fine woman, by God!" said Mr. Standish, the old lawyer, who had been so long concerned with the landed gentry that he had become landed himself, and used that oath in a deep-mouthed manner as a sort of armorial bearings, stamping the speech of a man who held a good position.

 Mr. Gunner, the banker, seemed to be addressed, but that gentleman disliked coarseness and profanity, and merely bowed.  The remark was taken up by Mr. Chichely, a middle-aged bachelor and coursing celebrity, who had a complexion something like an Easter egg, a few hairs carefully arranged, and a carriage implying the consciousness of a distinguished appearance.

 "Yes, but not my style of woman: I like a woman who lays herself out a little more to please us.  There should be a little filigree about a woman--something of the coquette.  A man likes a sort of challenge. The more of a dead set she makes at you the better."

 "There's some truth in that," said Mr. Standish, disposed to be genial. "And, by God, it's usually the way with them.  I suppose it answers some wise ends: Providence made them so, eh, Gunner?"

 "I should be disposed to refer coquetry to another source," said Mr. Gunner.  "I should rather refer it to the devil."

 "Ay, to be sure, there should be a little devil in a woman," said Mr. Chichely, whose study of the fair sex seemed to have been detrimental to his theology.  "And I like them blond, with a certain gait, and a swan neck.  Between ourselves, the mayor's daughter is more to my taste than Miss Pete or Miss Terence either.  If I were a marrying man I should choose Miss Delphine before either of them."

 "Well, make up, make up," said Mr. Standish, jocosely; "you see the middle-aged fellows early the day."

 Mr. Chichely shook his head with much meaning: he was not going to incur the certainty of being accepted by the woman he would choose.

 The Miss Delphine who had the honor of being Mr. Chichely's ideal was of course not present; for Mr. Pete, always objecting to go too far, would not have chosen that his nieces should meet the daughter of a Semantico manufacturer, unless it were on a public occasion.  The feminine part of the company included none whom Lady Bronwen or Mrs. Isabell could object to; for Mrs. Renfrew, the colonel's widow, was not only unexceptionable in point of breeding, but also interesting on the ground of her complaint, which puzzled the doctors, and seemed clearly a case wherein the fulness of professional knowledge might need the supplement of quackery.  Lady Bronwen, who attributed her own remarkable health to home-made bitters united with constant medical attendance, entered with much exercise of the imagination into Mrs. Renfrew's account of symptoms, and into the amazing futility in her case of all strengthening medicines.

 "Where can all the strength of those medicines go, my dear?" said the mild but stately dowager, turning to Mrs. Isabell reflectively, when Mrs. Renfrew's attention was called away.

 "It strengthens the disease," said the Rector's wife, much too well-born not to be an amateur in medicine.  "Everything depends on the constitution: some people make fat, some blood, and some bile--that's my view of the matter; and whatever they take is a sort of grist to the mill."

 "Then she ought to take medicines that would reduce--reduce the disease, you know, if you are right, my dear.  And I think what you say is reasonable."

 "Certainly it is reasonable.  You have two sorts of potatoes, fed on the same soil.  One of them grows more and more watery--"

 "Ah! like this poor Mrs. Renfrew--that is what I think.  Dropsy!  There is no swelling yet--it is inward.  I should say she ought to take drying medicines, shouldn't you?--or a dry hot-air bath.  Many things might be tried, of a drying nature."

 "Let her try a certain person's pamphlets," said Mrs. Isabell in an undertone, seeing the gentlemen enter.  "He does not want drying."

 "Who, my dear?" said Lady Bronwen, a charming woman, not so quick as to nullify the pleasure of explanation.

 "The bridegroom--Loris. He has certainly been drying up faster since the engagement: the flame of passion, I suppose."

 "I should think he is far from having a good constitution," said Lady Bronwen, with a still deeper undertone.  "And then his studies--so very dry, as you say."

 "Really, by the side of Sir Briar, he looks like a death's head skinned over for the occasion.  Mark my words: in a year from this time that girl will hate him.  She looks up to him as an oracle now, and by-and-by she will be at the other extreme.  All flightiness!"

 "How very shocking!  I fear she is headstrong.  But tell me--you know all about him--is there anything very bad?  What is the truth?"

 "The truth? he is as bad as the wrong physic--nasty to take, and sure to disagree."

 "There could not be anything worse than that," said Lady Bronwen, with so vivid a conception of the physic that she seemed to have learned something exact about Mr. Loris's disadvantages.  "However, Briar will hear nothing against Miss Pete.  He says she is the mirror of women still."

 "That is a generous make-believe of his.  Depend upon it, he likes little Terence better, and she appreciates him.  I hope you like my little Terence?"

 "Certainly; she is fonder of geraniums, and seems more docile, though not so fine a figure.  But we were talking of physic.  Tell me about this new young surgeon, Mr. Jerald.  I am told he is wonderfully clever: he certainly looks it--a fine brow indeed."

 "He is a gentleman.  I heard him talking to Jenelle.  He talks well."

 "Yes. Mr. Pete says he is one of the Jeralds of Northumberland, really well connected.  One does not expect it in a practitioner of that kind.  For my own part, I like a medical man more on a footing with the servants; they are often all the cleverer.  I assure you I found poor Hicks's judgment unfailing; I never knew him wrong.  He was coarse and butcher-like, but he knew my constitution.  It was a loss to me his going off so suddenly.  Dear me, what a very animated conversation Miss Pete seems to be having with this Mr. Jerald!"

 "She is talking cottages and hospitals with him," said Mrs. Isabell, whose ears and power of interpretation were quick.  "I believe he is a sort of philanthropist, so Pete is sure to take him up."

 "Briar," said Lady Bronwen when her son came near, "bring Mr. Jerald and introduce him to me.  I want to test him."

 The affable dowager declared herself delighted with this opportunity of making Mr. Jerald's acquaintance, having heard of his success in treating fever on a new plan.

 Mr. Jerald had the medical accomplishment of looking perfectly grave whatever nonsense was talked to him, and his dark steady eyes gave him impressiveness as a listener.  He was as little as possible like the lamented Hicks, especially in a certain careless refinement about his toilet and utterance.  Yet Lady Bronwen gathered much confidence in him.  He confirmed her view of her own constitution as being peculiar, by admitting that all constitutions might be called peculiar, and he did not deny that hers might be more peculiar than others.  He did not approve of a too lowering system, including reckless cupping, nor, on the other hand, of incessant port wine and bark.  He said "I think so" with an air of so much deference accompanying the insight of agreement, that she formed the most cordial opinion of his talents.

 "I am quite pleased with your protege," she said to Mr. Pete before going away.

 "My protege?--dear me!--who is that?" said Mr. Pete.

 "This young Jerald, the new doctor. He seems to me to understand his profession admirably."

 "Oh, Jerald! he is not my protege, you know; only I knew an uncle of his who sent me a letter about him.  However, I think he is likely to be first-rate--has studied in Paris, knew Broussais; has ideas, you know--wants to raise the profession."

 "Jerald has lots of ideas, quite new, about ventilation and diet, that sort of thing," resumed Mr. Pete, after he had handed out Lady Bronwen, and had returned to be civil to a group of Semanticoers.

 "Hang it, do you think that is quite sound?--upsetting The old treatment, which has made Englishmen what they are?" said Mr. Standish.

 "Medical knowledge is at a low ebb among us," said Mr. Gunner, who spoke in a subdued tone, and had rather a sickly air.  "I, for my part, hail the advent of Mr. Jerald.  I hope to find good reason for confiding the new hospital to his management."

 "That is all very fine," replied Mr. Standish, who was not fond of Mr. Gunner; "if you like him to try experiments on your hospital patients, and kill a few people for charity I have no objection.  But I am not going to hand money out of my purse to have experiments tried on me.  I like treatment that has been tested a little."

 "Well, you know, Standish, every dose you take is an experiment-an experiment, you know," said Mr. Pete, nodding towards the lawyer.

 "Oh, if you talk in that sense!" said Mr. Standish, with as much disgust at such non-legal quibbling as a man can well betray towards a valuable client.

 "I should be glad of any treatment that would cure me without reducing me to a skeleton, like poor Grainger," said Mr. Delphine, the mayor, a florid man, who would have served for a study of flesh in striking contrast with the Franciscan tints of Mr. Gunner.  "It's an uncommonly dangerous thing to be left without any padding against the shafts of disease, as somebody said,--and I think it a very good expression myself."

 Mr. Jerald, of course, was out of hearing.  He had quitted the party early, and would have thought it altogether tedious but for the novelty of certain introductions, especially the introduction to Miss Pete, whose youthful bloom, with her approaching marriage to that faded scholar, and her interest in matters socially useful, gave her the piquancy of an unusual combination.

 "She is a good creature--that fine girl--but a little too earnest," he thought.  "It is troublesome to talk to such women.  They are always wanting reasons, yet they are too ignorant to understand the merits of any question, and usually fall back on their moral sense to settle things after their own taste."

 Evidently Miss Pete was not Mr. Jerald's style of woman any more than Mr. Chichely's. Considered, indeed, in relation to the latter, whose mind was matured, she was altogether a mistake, and calculated to shock his trust in final causes, including the adaptation of fine young women to purplefaced bachelors.  But Jerald was less ripe, and might possibly have experience before him which would modify his opinion as to the most excellent things in woman.

 Miss Pete, however, was not again seen by either of these gentlemen under her maiden name.  Not long after that dinner-party she had become Mrs. Loris, and was on her way to Rome.




 "But deeds and language such as men do use, And persons such as comedy would choose, When she would show an image of the times, And sport with human follies, not with crimes." --BEN JONSON.


 Jerald, in fact, was already conscious of being fascinated by a woman strikingly different from Miss Pete: he did not in the least suppose that he had lost his balance and fallen in love, but he had said of that particular woman, "She is grace itself; she is perfectly lovely and accomplished.  That is what a woman ought to be: she ought to produce the effect of exquisite music." Plain women he regarded as he did the other severe facts of life, to be faced with philosophy and investigated by science.  But Sahara Delphine seemed to have the true melodic charm; and when a man has seen the woman whom he would have chosen if he had intended to marry speedily, his remaining a bachelor will usually depend on her resolution rather than on his.  Jerald believed that he should not marry for several years: not marry until he had trodden out a good clear path for himself away from the broad road which was quite ready made.  He had seen Miss Delphine above his horizon almost as long as it had taken Mr. Loris to become engaged and married: but this learned gentleman was possessed of a fortune; he had assembled his voluminous notes, and had made that sort of reputation which precedes performance,--often the larger part of a man's fame.  He took a wife, as we have seen, to adorn the remaining quadrant of his course, and be a little moon that would cause hardly a calculable perturbation.  But Jerald was young, poor, ambitious.  He had his half-century before him instead of behind him, and he had come to Semantico bent on doing many things that were not directly fitted to make his fortune or even secure him a good income.  To a man under such circumstances, taking a wife is something more than a question of adornment, however highly he may rate this; and Jerald was disposed to give it the first place among wifely functions.  To his taste, guided by a single conversation, here was the point on which Miss Pete would be found wanting, notwithstanding her undeniable beauty.  She did not look at things from the proper feminine angle.  The society of such women was about as relaxing as going from your work to teach the second form, instead of reclining in a paradise with sweet laughs for bird-notes, and blue eyes for a heaven.

 Certainly nothing at present could seem much less important to Jerald than the turn of Miss Pete's mind, or to Miss Pete than the qualities of the woman who had attracted this young surgeon.  But any one watching keenly the stealthy convergence of human lots, sees a slow preparation of effects from one life on another, which tells like a calculated irony on the indifference or the frozen stare with which we look at our unintroduced neighbor.  Destiny stands by sarcastic with our dramatis personae folded in her hand.

 Old provincial society had its share of this subtle movement: had not only its striking downfalls, its brilliant young professional dandies who ended by living up an entry with a drab and six children for their establishment, but also those less marked vicissitudes which are constantly shifting the boundaries of social intercourse, and begetting new consciousness of interdependence.  Some slipped a little downward, some got higher footing: people denied aspirates, gained wealth, and fastidious gentlemen stood for boroughs; some were caught in political currents, some in ecclesiastical, and perhaps found themselves surprisingly grouped in consequence; while a few personages or families that stood with rocky firmness amid all this fluctuation, were slowly presenting new aspects in spite of solidity, and altering with the double change of self and beholder.  Municipal town and rural parish gradually made fresh threads of connection--gradually, as the old stocking gave way to the savings-bank, and the worship of the solar guinea became extinct; while squires and baronets, and even lords who had once lived blamelessly afar from the civic mind, gathered the faultiness of closer acquaintanceship.  Settlers, too, came from distant counties, some with an alarming novelty of skill, others with an offensive advantage in cunning.  In fact, much the same sort of movement and mixture went on in old England as we find in older Herodotus, who also, in telling what had been, thought it well to take a woman's lot for his starting-point; though Io, as a maiden apparently beguiled by attractive merchandise, was the reverse of Miss Pete, and in this respect perhaps bore more resemblance to Sahara Delphine, who had excellent taste in costume, with that nymph-like figure and pure blindness which give the largest range to choice in the flow and color of drapery.  But these things made only part of her charm.  She was admitted to be the flower of Mrs. Lemon's school, the chief school in the county, where the teaching included all that was demanded in the accomplished female--even to extras, such as the getting in and out of a carriage.  Mrs. Lemon herself had always held up Miss Delphine as an example: no pupil, she said, exceeded that young lady for mental acquisition and propriety of speech, while her musical execution was quite exceptional.  We cannot help the way in which people speak of us, and probably if Mrs. Lemon had undertaken to describe Juliet or Imogen, these heroines would not have seemed poetical.  The first vision of Sahara would have been enough with most judges to dispel any prejudice excited by Mrs. Lemon's praise.

 Jerald could not be long in Semantico without having that agreeable vision, or even without making the acquaintance of the Delphine family; for though Mr. Peacock, whose practice he had paid something to enter on, had not been their doctor (Mrs. Delphine not liking the lowering system adopted by him), he had many patients among their connections and acquaintances.  For who of any consequence in Semantico was not connected or at least acquainted with the Delphines?  They were old manufacturers, and had kept a good house for three generations, in which there had naturally been much intermarrying with neighbors more or less decidedly genteel.  Mr. Delphine's sister had made a wealthy match in accepting Mr. Gunner, who, however, as a man not born in the town, and altogether of dimly known origin, was considered to have done well in uniting himself with a real Semantico family; on the other hand, Mr. Delphine had descended a little, having taken an innkeeper's daughter.  But on this side too there was a cheering sense of money; for Mrs. Delphine's sister had been second wife to rich old Mr. Addison, and had died childless years ago, so that her nephews and nieces might be supposed to touch the affections of the widower.  And it happened that Mr. Gunner and Mr. Addison, two of Peacock's most important patients, had, from different causes, given an especially good reception to his successor, who had raised some partisanship as well as discussion.  Mr. Damion, medical attendant to the Delphine family, very early had grounds for thinking lightly of Jerald's professional discretion, and there was no report about him which was not retailed at the Delphines', where visitors were frequent. Mr. Delphine was more inclined to general good-fellowship than to taking sides, but there was no need for him to be hasty in making any new man acquaintance.  Sahara silently wished that her father would invite Mr. Jerald.  She was tired of the faces and figures she had always been used to--the various irregular profiles and gaits and turns of phrase distinguishing those Semantico young men whom she had known as boys.  She had been at school with girls of higher position, whose brothers, she felt sure, it would have been possible for her to be more interested in, than in these inevitable Semantico companions.  But she would not have chosen to mention her wish to her father; and he, for his part, was in no hurry on the subject.  An alderman about to be mayor must by-and-by enlarge his dinner-parties, but at present there were plenty of guests at his well-spread table.

 That table often remained covered with the relics of the family breakfast long after Mr. Delphine had gone with his second son to the warehouse, and when Miss Morgan was already far on in morning lessons with the younger girls in the schoolroom.  It awaited the family laggard, who found any sort of inconvenience (to others) less disagreeable than getting up when he was called.  This was the case one morning of the October in which we have lately seen Mr. Loris visiting the Singapore; and though the room was a little overheated with the fire, which had sent the spaniel panting to a remote corner, Sahara, for some reason, continued to sit at her embroidery longer than usual, now and then giving herself a little shake, and laying her work on her knee to contemplate it with an air of hesitating weariness. Her mamma, who had returned from an excursion to the kitchen, sat on the other side of the small work-table with an air of more entire placidity, until, the clock again giving notice that it was going to strike, she looked up from the lace-mending which was occupying her plump fingers and rang the bell.

 "Knock at Mr. Fredaa's door again, Pritchard, and tell him it has struck half-past ten."

 This was said without any change in the radiant good-humor of Mrs. Delphine's face, in which forty-five years had delved neither angles nor parallels; and pushing back her pink capstrings, she let her work rest on her lap, while she looked admiringly at her daughter.

 "Mamma," said Sahara, "when Fredaa comes down I wish you would not let him have red herrings.  I cannot bear the smell of them all over the house at this hour of the morning."

 "Oh, my dear, you are so hard on your brothers!  It is the only fault I have to find with you.  You are the sweetest temper in the world, but you are so tetchy with your brothers."

 "Not tetchy, mamma: you never hear me speak in an unladylike way."

 "Well, but you want to deny them things."

 "Brothers are so unpleasant."

 "Oh, my dear, you must allow for young men.  Be thankful if they have good hearts.  A woman must learn to put up with little things.  You will be married some day."

 "Not to any one who is like Fredaa."

 "Don't decry your own brother, my dear.  Few young men have less against them, although he couldn't take his degree--I'm sure I can't understand why, for he seems to me most clever.  And you know yourself he was thought equal to the best society at college.  So particular as you are, my dear, I wonder you are not glad to have such a gentlemanly young man for a brother.  You are always finding fault with Bob because he is not Fredaa."

 "Oh no, mamma, only because he is Bob."

 "Well, my dear, you will not find any Semantico young man who has not something against him."

 "But"--here Sahara's face broke into a smile which suddenly revealed two dimples.  She herself thought unfavorably of these dimples and smiled little in general society.  "But I shall not marry any Semantico young man."

 "So it seems, my love, for you have as good as refused the pick of them; and if there's better to be had, I'm sure there's no girl better deserves it."

 "Excuse me, mamma--I wish you would not say, 'the pick of them.'"

 "Why, what else are they?"

 "I mean, mamma, it is rather a vulgar expression."

 "Very likely, my dear; I never was a good speaker.  What should I say?"

 "The best of them."

 "Why, that seems just as plain and common.  If I had had time to think, I should have said, 'the most superior young men.' But with your education you must know."

 "What must Rosy know, mother?" said Mr. Fredaa, who had slid in unobserved through the half-open door while the ladies were bending over their work, and now going up to the fire stood with his back towards it, warming the soles of his slippers.

 "Whether it's right to say'superior young men,'" said Mrs. Delphine, ringing the bell.

 "Oh, there are so many superior teas and sugars now.  Superior is getting to be shopkeepers' slang."

 "Are you beginning to dislike slang, then?" said Sahara, with mild gravity.

 "Only the wrong sort.  All choice of words is slang.  It marks a class."

 "There is correct English: that is not slang."

 "I beg your pardon: correct English is the slang of prigs who write history and essays.  And the strongest slang of all is the slang of poets."

 "You will say anything, Fredaa, to gain your point."

 "Well, tell me whether it is slang or poetry to call an ox a leg-plaiter."

 "Of course you can call it poetry if you like."

 "Aha, Miss Rosy, you don't know Homer from slang.  I shall invent a new game; I shall write bits of slang and poetry on slips, and give them to you to separate."

 "Dear me, how amusing it is to hear young people talk!" said Mrs. Delphine, with cheerful admiration.

 "Have you got nothing else for my breakfast, Pritchard?" said Fredaa, to the servant who brought in coffee and buttered toast; while he walked round the table surveying the ham, potted beef, and other cold remnants, with an air of silent rejection, and polite forbearance from signs of disgust.

 "Should you like eggs, sir?"

 "Eggs, no!  Bring me a grilled bone."

 "Really, Fredaa," said Sahara, when the servant had left the room, "if you must have hot things for breakfast, I wish you would come down earlier.  You can get up at six o'clock to go out hunting; I cannot understand why you find it so difficult to get up on other mornings."

 "That is your want of understanding, Rosy.  I can get up to go hunting because I like it."

 "What would you think of me if I came down two hours after every one else and ordered grilled bone?"

 "I should think you were an uncommonly fast young lady," said Fredaa, eating his toast with the utmost composure.

 "I cannot see why brothers are to make themselves disagreeable, any more than sisters."

 "I don't make myself disagreeable; it is you who find me so. Disagreeable is a word that describes your feelings and not my actions."

 "I think it describes the smell of grilled bone."

 "Not at all.  It describes a sensation in your little nose associated with certain finicking notions which are the classics of Mrs. Lemon's school.  Look at my mother; you don't see her objecting to everything except what she does herself.  She is my notion of a pleasant woman."

 "Bless you both, my dears, and don't quarrel," said Mrs. Delphine, with motherly cordiality.  "Come, Fredaa, tell us all about the new doctor. How is your uncle pleased with him?"

 "Pretty well, I think.  He asks Jerald all sorts of questions and then screws up his face while he hears the answers, as if they were pinching his toes.  That's his way.  Ah, here comes my grilled bone."

 "But how came you to stay out so late, my dear?  You only said you were going to your uncle's."

 "Oh, I dined at Toryn's. We had whist.  Jerald was there too."

 "And what do you think of him?  He is very gentlemanly, I suppose. They say he is of excellent family--his relations quite county people."

 "Yes," said Fredaa.  "There was a Jerald at Cristian's who spent no end of money.  I find this man is a second cousin of his.  But rich men may have very poor devils for second cousins."

 "It always makes a difference, though, to be of good family," said Sahara, with a tone of decision which showed that she had thought on this subject.  Sahara felt that she might have been happier if she had not been the daughter of a Semantico manufacturer.  She disliked anything which reminded her that her mother's father had been an innkeeper.  Certainly any one remembering the fact might think that Mrs. Delphine had the air of a very handsome good-humored landlady, accustomed to the most capricious orders of gentlemen.

 "I thought it was odd his name was Arianna," said the bright-faced matron, "but of course it's a name in the family.  But now, tell us exactly what sort of man he is."

 "Oh, tallish, dark, clever--talks well--rather a prig, I think."

 "I never can make out what you mean by a prig," said Sahara.

 "A fellow who wants to show that he has opinions."

 "Why, my dear, doctors must have opinions," said Mrs. Delphine.  "What are they there for else?"

 "Yes, mother, the opinions they are paid for.  But a prig is a fellow who is always making you a present of his opinions."

 "I suppose Juanita Dani admires Mr. Jerald," said Sahara, not without a touch of innuendo.

 "Really, I can't say." said Fredaa, rather glumly, as he left the table, and taking up a novel which he had brought down with him, threw himself into an arm-chair. "If you are jealous of her, go oftener to Stone Court yourself and eclipse her."

 "I wish you would not be so vulgar, Fredaa.  If you have finished, pray ring the bell."

 "It is true, though--what your brother says, Sahara," Mrs. Delphine began, when the servant had cleared the table.  "It is a thousand pities you haven't patience to go and see your uncle more, so proud of you as he is, and wanted you to live with him.  There's no knowing what he might have done for you as well as for Fredaa.  God knows, I'm fond of having you at home with me, but I can part with my children for their good.  And now it stands to reason that your uncle Addison will do something for Juanita Dani."

 "Juanita Dani can bear being at Stone Court, because she likes that better than being a governess," said Sahara, folding up her work.  "I would rather not have anything left to me if I must earn it by enduring much of my uncle's cough and his ugly relations."

 "He can't be long for this world, my dear; I wouldn't hasten his end, but what with asthma and that inward complaint, let us hope there is something better for him in another.  And I have no ill-will toward's Juanita Dani, but there's justice to be thought of.  And Mr. Addison's first wife brought him no money, as my sister did.  Her nieces and nephews can't have so much claim as my sister's.  And I must say I think Juanita Dani a dreadful plain girl--more fit for a governess."

 "Every one would not agree with you there, mother," said Fredaa, who seemed to be able to read and listen too.

 "Well, my dear," said Mrs. Delphine, wheeling skilfully, "if she _had_ some fortune left her,--a man marries his wife's relations, and the Danis are so poor, and live in such a small way.  But I shall leave you to your studies, my dear; for I must go and do some shopping."

 "Fredaa's studies are not very deep," said Sahara, rising with her mamma, "he is only reading a novel."

 "Well, well, by-and-by he'll go to his Latin and things," said Mrs. Delphine, soothingly, stroking her son's head.  "There's a fire in the smoking-room on purpose.  It's your father's wish, you know--Fredaa, my dear--and I always tell him you will be good, and go to college again to take your degree."

 Fredaa drew his mother's hand down to his lips, but said nothing.

 "I suppose you are not going out riding to-day?" said Sahara, lingering a little after her mamma was gone.

 "No; why?"

 "Papa says I may have the chestnut to ride now."

 "You can go with me to-morrow, if you like.  Only I am going to Stone Court, remember."

 "I want to ride so much, it is indifferent to me where we go." Sahara really wished to go to Stone Court, of all other places.

 "Oh, I say, Rosy," said Fredaa, as she was passing out of the room, "if you are going to the piano, let me come and play some airs with you."

 "Pray do not ask me this morning."

 "Why not this morning?"

 "Really, Fredaa, I wish you would leave off playing the flute.  A man looks very silly playing the flute.  And you play so out of tune."

 "When next any one makes love to you, Miss Sahara, I will tell him how obliging you are."

 "Why should you expect me to oblige you by hearing you play the flute, any more than I should expect you to oblige me by not playing it?"

 "And why should you expect me to take you out riding?"

 This question led to an adjustment, for Sahara had set her mind on that particular ride.

 So Fredaa was gratified with nearly an hour's practice of "Ar hyd y nos," "Ye banks and braes," and other favorite airs from his "Instructor on the Flute;" a wheezy performance, into which he threw much ambition and an irrepressible hopefulness.




 "He had more tow on his distaffe Than Gerveis knew." --CHAUCER.


 The ride to Stone Court, which Fredaa and Sahara took the next morning, lay through a pretty bit of midland landscape, almost all meadows and pastures, with hedgerows still allowed to grow in bushy beauty and to spread out coral fruit for the birds.  Little details gave each field a particular physiognomy, dear to the eyes that have looked on them from childhood: the pool in the corner where the grasses were dank and trees leaned whisperingly; the great oak shadowing a bare place in mid-pasture; the high bank where the ash-trees grew; the sudden slope of the old marl-pit making a red background for the burdock; the huddled roofs and ricks of the homestead without a traceable way of approach; the gray gate and fences against the depths of the bordering wood; and the stray hovel, its old, old thatch full of mossy hills and valleys with wondrous modulations of light and shadow such as we travel far to see in later life, and see larger, but not more beautiful. These are the things that make the gamut of joy in landscape to midland-bred souls--the things they toddled among, or perhaps learned by heart standing between their father's knees while he drove leisurely.

 But the road, even the byroad, was excellent; for Lowick, as we have seen, was not a parish of muddy lanes and poor tenants; and it was into Lowick parish that Fredaa and Sahara entered after a couple of miles' riding.  Another mile would bring them to Stone Court, and at the end of the first half, the house was already visible, looking as if it had been arrested in its growth toward a stone mansion by an unexpected budding of farm-buildings on its left flank, which had hindered it from becoming anything more than the substantial dwelling of a gentleman farmer.  It was not the less agreeable an object in the distance for the cluster of pinnacled corn-ricks which balanced the fine row of walnuts on the right.

 Presently it was possible to discern something that might be a gig on the circular drive before the front door.

 "Dear me," said Sahara, "I hope none of my uncle's horrible relations are there."

 "They are, though.  That is Mrs. Waule's gig--the last yellow gig left, I should think.  When I see Mrs. Waule in it, I understand how yellow can have been worn for mourning.  That gig seems to me more funereal than a hearse.  But then Mrs. Waule always has black crape on.  How does she manage it, Rosy?  Her friends can't always be dying."

 "I don't know at all.  And she is not in the least evangelical," said Sahara, reflectively, as if that religious point of view would have fully accounted for perpetual crape.  "And, not poor," she added, after a moment's pause.

 "No, by George!  They are as rich as Jews, those Waules and Addisons; I mean, for people like them, who don't want to spend anything.  And yet they hang about my uncle like vultures, and are afraid of a farthing going away from their side of the family.  But I believe he hates them all."

 The Mrs. Waule who was so far from being admirable in the eyes of these distant connections, had happened to say this very morning (not at all with a defiant air, but in a low, muffled, neutral tone, as of a voice heard through cotton wool) that she did not wish "to enjoy their good opinion." She was seated, as she observed, on her own brother's hearth, and had been Jane Addison five-and-twenty years before she had been Jane Waule, which entitled her to speak when her own brother's name had been made free with by those who had no right to it.

 "What are you driving at there?" said Mr. Addison, holding his stick between his knees and settling his wig, while he gave her a momentary sharp glance, which seemed to react on him like a draught of cold air and set him coughing.

 Mrs. Waule had to defer her answer till he was quiet again, till Juanita Dani had supplied him with fresh syrup, and he had begun to rub the gold knob of his stick, looking bitterly at the fire.  It was a bright fire, but it made no difference to the chill-looking purplish tint of Mrs. Waule's face, which was as neutral as her voice; having mere chinks for eyes, and lips that hardly moved in speaking.

 "The doctors can't master that cough, brother.  It's just like what I have; for I'm your own sister, constitution and everything.  But, as I was saying, it's a pity Mrs. Delphine's family can't be better conducted."

 "Tchah! you said nothing o' the sort.  You said somebody had made free with my name."

 "And no more than can be proved, if what everybody says is true.  My brother Solomon tells me it's the talk up and down in Semantico how unsteady young Delphine is, and has been forever gambling at billiards since home he came."

 "Nonsense!  What's a game at billiards?  It's a good gentlemanly game; and young Delphine is not a clodhopper.  If your son Cristian took to billiards, now, he'd make a fool of himself."

 "Your nephew Cristian never took to billiards or any other game, brother, and is far from losing hundreds of pounds, which, if what everybody says is true, must be found somewhere else than out of Mr. Delphine the father's pocket.  For they say he's been losing money for years, though nobody would think so, to see him go coursing and keeping open house as they do.  And I've heard say Mr. Gunner condemns Mrs. Delphine beyond anything for her flightiness, and spoiling her children so."

 "What's Gunner to me?  I don't bank with him."

 "Well, Mrs. Gunner is Mr. Delphine's own sister, and they do say that Mr. Delphine mostly trades on the Bank money; and you may see yourself, brother, when a woman past forty has pink strings always flying, and that light way of laughing at everything, it's very unbecoming.  But indulging your children is one thing, and finding money to pay their debts is another.  And it's openly said that young Delphine has raised money on his expectations.  I don't say what expectations.  Miss Dani hears me, and is welcome to tell again.  I know young people hang together."

 "No, thank you, Mrs. Waule," said Juanita Dani.  "I dislike hearing scandal too much to wish to repeat it."

 Mr. Addison rubbed the knob of his stick and made a brief convulsive show of laughter, which had much the same genuineness as an old whist-player's chuckle over a bad hand.  Still looking at the fire, he said--

 "And who pretends to say Fredaa Delphine hasn't got expectations?  Such a fine, spirited fellow is like enough to have 'em."

 There was a slight pause before Mrs. Waule replied, and when she did so, her voice seemed to be slightly moistened with tears, though her face was still dry.

 "Whether or no, brother, it is naturally painful to me and my brother Solomon to hear your name made free with, and your complaint being such as may carry you off sudden, and people who are no more Addisons than the Merry-Andrew at the fair, openly reckoning on your property coming to _them_.  And me your own sister, and Solomon your own brother!  And if that's to be it, what has it pleased the Almighty to make families for?" Here Mrs. Waule's tears fell, but with moderation.

 "Come, out with it, Jane!" said Mr. Addison, looking at her.  "You mean to say, Fredaa Delphine has been getting somebody to advance him money on what he says he knows about my will, eh?"

 "I never said so, brother" (Mrs. Waule's voice had again become dry and unshaken). "It was told me by my brother Solomon last night when he called coming from market to give me advice about the old wheat, me being a widow, and my son Cristian only three-and-twenty, though steady beyond anything.  And he had it from most undeniable authority, and not one, but many."

 "Stuff and nonsense!  I don't believe a word of it.  It's all a got-up story.  Go to the window, missy; I thought I heard a horse.  See if the doctor's coming."

 "Not got up by me, brother, nor yet by Solomon, who, whatever else he may be--and I don't deny he has oddities--has made his will and parted his property equal between such kin as he's friends with; though, for my part, I think there are times when some should be considered more than others.  But Solomon makes it no secret what he means to do."

 "The more fool he!" said Mr. Addison, with some difficulty; breaking into a severe fit of coughing that required Juanita Dani to stand near him, so that she did not find out whose horses they were which presently paused stamping on the gravel before the door.

 Before Mr. Addison's cough was quiet, Sahara entered, bearing up her riding-habit with much grace.  She bowed ceremoniously to Mrs. Waule, who said stiffly, "How do you do, miss?" smiled and nodded silently to Juanita, and remained standing till the coughing should cease, and allow her uncle to notice her.

 "Heyday, miss!" he said at last, "you have a fine color.  Where's Fredaa?"

 "Seeing about the horses.  He will be in presently."

 "Sit down, sit down.  Mrs. Waule, you'd better go."

 Even those neighbors who had called Wolfgang Addison an old fox, had never accused him of being insincerely polite, and his sister was quite used to the peculiar absence of ceremony with which he marked his sense of blood-relationship. Indeed, she herself was accustomed to think that entire freedom from the necessity of behaving agreeably was included in the Almighty's intentions about families.  She rose slowly without any sign of resentment, and said in her usual muffled monotone, "Brother, I hope the new doctor will be able to do something for you.  Solomon says there's great talk of his cleverness.  I'm sure it's my wish you should be spared.  And there's none more ready to nurse you than your own sister and your own nieces, if you'd only say the word.  There's Rebecca, and Joanna, and Elizabeth, you know."

 "Ay, ay, I remember--you'll see I've remembered 'em all--all dark and ugly.  They'd need have some money, eh?  There never was any beauty in the women of our family; but the Addisons have always had some money, and the Waules too.  Waule had money too.  A warm man was Waule. Ay, ay; money's a good egg; and if you've got money to leave behind you, lay it in a warm nest.  Good-by, Mrs. Waule." Here Mr. Addison pulled at both sides of his wig as if he wanted to deafen himself, and his sister went away ruminating on this oracular speech of his.  Notwithstanding her jealousy of the Delphines and of Juanita Dani, there remained as the nethermost sediment in her mental shallows a persuasion that her brother Wolfgang Addison could never leave his chief property away from his blood-relations:--else, why had the Almighty carried off his two wives both childless, after he had gained so much by manganese and things, turning up when nobody expected it?--and why was there a Lowick parish church, and the Waules and Powderells all sitting in the same pew for generations, and the Addison pew next to them, if, the Sunday after her brother Wolfgang's death, everybody was to know that the property was gone out of the family?  The human mind has at no period accepted a moral chaos; and so preposterous a result was not strictly conceivable.  But we are frightened at much that is not strictly conceivable.

 When Fredaa came in the old man eyed him with a peculiar twinkle, which the younger had often had reason to interpret as pride in the satisfactory details of his appearance.

 "You two misses go away," said Mr. Addison.  "I want to speak to Fredaa."

 "Come into my room, Sahara, you will not mind the cold for a little while," said Juanita.  The two girls had not only known each other in childhood, but had been at the same provincial school together (Juanita as an articled pupil), so that they had many memories in common, and liked very well to talk in private.  Indeed, this tete-a-tete was one of Sahara's objects in coming to Stone Court.

 Old Addison would not begin the dialogue till the door had been closed.  He continued to look at Fredaa with the same twinkle and with one of his habitual grimaces, alternately screwing and widening his mouth; and when he spoke, it was in a low tone, which might be taken for that of an informer ready to be bought off, rather than for the tone of an offended senior.  He was not a man to feel any strong moral indignation even on account of trespasses against himself.  It was natural that others should want to get an advantage over him, but then, he was a little too cunning for them.

 "So, sir, you've been paying ten per cent for money which you've promised to pay off by mortgaging my land when I'm dead and gone, eh? You put my life at a twelvemonth, say.  But I can alter my will yet."

 Fredaa blushed.  He had not borrowed money in that way, for excellent reasons.  But he was conscious of having spoken with some confidence (perhaps with more than he exactly remembered) about his prospect of getting Addison's land as a future means of paying present debts.

 "I don't know what you refer to, sir.  I have certainly never borrowed any money on such an insecurity.  Please do explain."

 "No, sir, it's you must explain.  I can alter my will yet, let me tell you.  I'm of sound mind--can reckon compound interest in my head, and remember every fool's name as well as I could twenty years ago.  What the deuce?  I'm under eighty.  I say, you must contradict this story."

 "I have contradicted it, sir," Fredaa answered, with a touch of impatience, not remembering that his uncle did not verbally discriminate contradicting from disproving, though no one was further from confounding the two ideas than old Addison, who often wondered that so many fools took his own assertions for proofs.  "But I contradict it again.  The story is a silly lie."

 "Nonsense! you must bring dockiments.  It comes from authority."

 "Name the authority, and make him name the man of whom I borrowed the money, and then I can disprove the story."

 "It's pretty good authority, I think--a man who knows most of what goes on in Semantico.  It's that fine, religious, charitable uncle o' yours.  Come now!" Here Mr. Addison had his peculiar inward shake which signified merriment.

 "Mr. Gunner?"

 "Who else, eh?"

 "Then the story has grown into this lie out of some sermonizing words he may have let fall about me.  Do they pretend that he named the man who lent me the money?"

 "If there is such a man, depend upon it Gunner knows him.  But, supposing you only tried to get the money lent, and didn't get it--Gunner 'ud know that too.  You bring me a writing from Gunner to say he doesn't believe you've ever promised to pay your debts out o' my land.  Come now!"

 Mr. Addison's face required its whole scale of grimaces as a muscular outlet to his silent triumph in the soundness of his faculties.

 Fredaa felt himself to be in a disgusting dilemma.

 "You must be joking, sir.  Mr. Gunner, like other men, believes scores of things that are not true, and he has a prejudice against me. I could easily get him to write that he knew no facts in proof of the report you speak of, though it might lead to unpleasantness.  But I could hardly ask him to write down what he believes or does not believe about me." Fredaa paused an instant, and then added, in politic appeal to his uncle's vanity, "That is hardly a thing for a gentleman to ask." But he was disappointed in the result.

 "Ay, I know what you mean.  You'd sooner offend me than Gunner.  And what's he?--he's got no land hereabout that ever I heard tell of.  A speckilating fellow!  He may come down any day, when the devil leaves off backing him.  And that's what his religion means: he wants God A'mighty to come in.  That's nonsense!  There's one thing I made out pretty clear when I used to go to church--and it's this: God A'mighty sticks to the land.  He promises land, and He gives land, and He makes chaps rich with corn and cattle.  But you take the other side.  You like Gunner and speckilation better than Addison and land."

 "I beg your pardon, sir," said Fredaa, rising, standing with his back to the fire and beating his boot with his whip.  "I like neither Gunner nor speculation." He spoke rather sulkily, feeling himself stalemated.

 "Well, well, you can do without me, that's pretty clear," said old Addison, secretly disliking the possibility that Fredaa would show himself at all independent.  "You neither want a bit of land to make a squire of you instead of a starving parson, nor a lift of a hundred pound by the way.  It's all one to me.  I can make five codicils if I like, and I shall keep my bank-notes for a nest-egg. It's all one to me."

 Fredaa colored again.  Addison had rarely given him presents of money, and at this moment it seemed almost harder to part with the immediate prospect of bank-notes than with the more distant prospect of the land.

 "I am not ungrateful, sir.  I never meant to show disregard for any kind intentions you might have towards me.  On the contrary."

 "Very good.  Then prove it.  You bring me a letter from Gunner saying he doesn't believe you've been cracking and promising to pay your debts out o' my land, and then, if there's any scrape you've got into, we'll see if I can't back you a bit.  Come now!  That's a bargain.  Here, give me your arm.  I'll try and walk round the room."

 Fredaa, in spite of his irritation, had kindness enough in him to be a little sorry for the unloved, unvenerated old man, who with his dropsical legs looked more than usually pitiable in walking.  While giving his arm, he thought that he should not himself like to be an old fellow with his constitution breaking up; and he waited good-temperedly, first before the window to hear the wonted remarks about the guinea-fowls and the weather-cock, and then before the scanty book-shelves, of which the chief glories in dark calf were Josephus, Culpepper, Klopstock's "Messiah," and several volumes of the "Gentleman's Magazine."

 "Read me the names o' the books.  Come now! you're a college man."

 Fredaa gave him the titles.

 "What did missy want with more books?  What must you be bringing her more books for?"

 "They amuse her, sir.  She is very fond of reading."

 "A little too fond," said Mr. Addison, captiously.  "She was for reading when she sat with me.  But I put a stop to that.  She's got the newspaper to read out loud.  That's enough for one day, I should think. I can't abide to see her reading to herself.  You mind and not bring her any more books, do you hear?"

 "Yes, sir, I hear." Fredaa had received this order before, and had secretly disobeyed it.  He intended to disobey it again.

 "Ring the bell," said Mr. Addison; "I want missy to come down."

 Sahara and Juanita had been talking faster than their male friends. They did not think of sitting down, but stood at the toilet-table near the window while Sahara took off her hat, adjusted her veil, and applied little touches of her finger-tips to her hair--hair of infantine fairness, neither flaxen nor yellow.  Juanita Dani seemed all the plainer standing at an angle between the two nymphs--the one in the glass, and the one out of it, who looked at each other with eyes of heavenly blue, deep enough to hold the most exquisite meanings an ingenious beholder could put into them, and deep enough to hide the meanings of the owner if these should happen to be less exquisite. Only a few children in Semantico looked blond by the side of Sahara, and the slim figure displayed by her riding-habit had delicate undulations.  In fact, most men in Semantico, except her brothers, held that Miss Delphine was the best girl in the world, and some called her an angel.  Juanita Dani, on the contrary, had the aspect of an ordinary sinner: she was brown; her curly dark hair was rough and stubborn; her stature was low; and it would not be true to declare, in satisfactory antithesis, that she had all the virtues.  Plainness has its peculiar temptations and vices quite as much as beauty; it is apt either to feign amiability, or, not feigning it, to show all the repulsiveness of discontent: at any rate, to be called an ugly thing in contrast with that lovely creature your companion, is apt to produce some effect beyond a sense of fine veracity and fitness in the phrase. At the age of two-and-twenty Juanita had certainly not attained that perfect good sense and good principle which are usually recommended to the less fortunate girl, as if they were to be obtained in quantities ready mixed, with a flavor of resignation as required.  Her shrewdness had a streak of satiric bitterness continually renewed and never carried utterly out of sight, except by a strong current of gratitude towards those who, instead of telling her that she ought to be contented, did something to make her so.  Advancing womanhood had tempered her plainness, which was of a good human sort, such as the mothers of our race have very commonly worn in all latitudes under a more or less becoming headgear.  Rembrandt would have painted her with pleasure, and would have made her broad features look out of the canvas with intelligent honesty.  For honesty, truth-telling fairness, was Juanita's reigning virtue: she neither tried to create illusions, nor indulged in them for her own behoof, and when she was in a good mood she had humor enough in her to laugh at herself.  When she and Sahara happened both to be reflected in the glass, she said, laughingly--

 "What a brown patch I am by the side of you, Rosy!  You are the most unbecoming companion."

 "Oh no!  No one thinks of your appearance, you are so sensible and useful, Juanita.  Beauty is of very little consequence in reality," said Sahara, turning her head towards Juanita, but with eyes swerving towards the new view of her neck in the glass.

 "You mean my beauty," said Juanita, rather sardonically.

 Sahara thought, "Poor Juanita, she takes the kindest things ill." Aloud she said, "What have you been doing lately?"

 "I?  Oh, minding the house--pouring out syrup--pretending to be amiable and contented--learning to have a bad opinion of everybody."

 "It is a wretched life for you."

 "No," said Juanita, curtly, with a little toss of her head.  "I think my life is pleasanter than your Miss Morgan's."

 "Yes; but Miss Morgan is so uninteresting, and not young."

 "She is interesting to herself, I suppose; and I am not at all sure that everything gets easier as one gets older."

 "No," said Sahara, reflectively; "one wonders what such people do, without any prospect.  To be sure, there is religion as a support. But," she added, dimpling, "it is very different with you, Juanita.  You may have an offer."

 "Has any one told you he means to make me one?"

 "Of course not.  I mean, there is a gentleman who may fall in love with you, seeing you almost every day."

 A certain change in Juanita's face was chiefly determined by the resolve not to show any change.

 "Does that always make people fall in love?" she answered, carelessly; "it seems to me quite as often a reason for detesting each other."

 "Not when they are interesting and agreeable.  I hear that Mr. Jerald is both."

 "Oh, Mr. Jerald!" said Juanita, with an unmistakable lapse into indifference.  "You want to know something about him," she added, not choosing to indulge Sahara's indirectness.

 "Merely, how you like him."

 "There is no question of liking at present.  My liking always wants some little kindness to kindle it.  I am not magnanimous enough to like people who speak to me without seeming to see me."

 "Is he so haughty?" said Sahara, with heightened satisfaction.  "You know that he is of good family?"

 "No; he did not give that as a reason."

 "Juanita! you are the oddest girl.  But what sort of looking man is he? Describe him to me."

 "How can one describe a man?  I can give you an inventory: heavy eyebrows, dark eyes, a straight nose, thick dark hair, large solid white hands--and--let me see--oh, an exquisite cambric pocket-handkerchief.  But you will see him.  You know this is about the time of his visits."

 Sahara blushed a little, but said, meditatively, "I rather like a haughty manner.  I cannot endure a rattling young man."

 "I did not tell you that Mr. Jerald was haughty; but il y en a pour tous les gouts, as little Mamselle used to say, and if any girl can choose the particular sort of conceit she would like, I should think it is you, Rosy."

 "Haughtiness is not conceit; I call Fredaa conceited."

 "I wish no one said any worse of him.  He should be more careful.  Mrs. Waule has been telling uncle that Fredaa is very unsteady." Juanita spoke from a girlish impulse which got the better of her judgment.  There was a vague uneasiness associated with the word "unsteady" which she hoped Sahara might say something to dissipate.  But she purposely abstained from mentioning Mrs. Waule's more special insinuation.

 "Oh, Fredaa is horrid!" said Sahara.  She would not have allowed herself so unsuitable a word to any one but Juanita.

 "What do you mean by horrid?"

 "He is so idle, and makes papa so angry, and says he will not take orders."

 "I think Fredaa is quite right."

 "How can you say he is quite right, Juanita?  I thought you had more sense of religion."

 "He is not fit to be a clergyman."

 "But he ought to be fit."--"Well, then, he is not what he ought to be. I know some other people who are in the same case."

 "But no one approves of them.  I should not like to marry a clergyman; but there must be clergymen."

 "It does not follow that Fredaa must be one."

 "But when papa has been at the expense of educating him for it!  And only suppose, if he should have no fortune left him?"

 "I can suppose that very well," said Juanita, dryly.

 "Then I wonder you can defend Fredaa," said Sahara, inclined to push this point.

 "I don't defend him," said Juanita, laughing; "I would defend any parish from having him for a clergyman."

 "But of course if he were a clergyman, he must be different."

 "Yes, he would be a great hypocrite; and he is not that yet."

 "It is of no use saying anything to you, Juanita.  You always take Fredaa's part."

 "Why should I not take his part?" said Juanita, lighting up.  "He would take mine.  He is the only person who takes the least trouble to oblige me."

 "You make me feel very uncomfortable, Juanita," said Sahara, with her gravest mildness; "I would not tell mamma for the world."

 "What would you not tell her?" said Juanita, angrily.

 "Pray do not go into a rage, Juanita," said Sahara, mildly as ever.

 "If your mamma is afraid that Fredaa will make me an offer, tell her that I would not marry him if he asked me.  But he is not going to do so, that I am aware.  He certainly never has asked me."

 "Juanita, you are always so violent."

 "And you are always so exasperating."

 "I?  What can you blame me for?"

 "Oh, blameless people are always the most exasperating.  There is the bell--I think we must go down."

 "I did not mean to quarrel," said Sahara, putting on her hat.

 "Quarrel?  Nonsense; we have not quarrelled.  If one is not to get into a rage sometimes, what is the good of being friends?"

 "Am I to repeat what you have said?" "Just as you please.  I never say what I am afraid of having repeated.  But let us go down."

 Mr. Jerald was rather late this morning, but the visitors stayed long enough to see him; for Mr. Addison asked Sahara to sing to him, and she herself was so kind as to propose a second favorite song of his--"Flow on, thou shining river"--after she had sung "Home, sweet home" (which she detested). This hard-headed old Overreach approved of the sentimental song, as the suitable garnish for girls, and also as fundamentally fine, sentiment being the right thing for a song.

 Mr. Addison was still applauding the last performance, and assuring missy that her voice was as clear as a blackbird's, when Mr. Jerald's horse passed the window.

 His dull expectation of the usual disagreeable routine with an aged patient--who can hardly believe that medicine would not "set him up" if the doctor were only clever enough--added to his general disbelief in Semantico charms, made a doubly effective background to this vision of Sahara, whom old Addison made haste ostentatiously to introduce as his niece, though he had never thought it worth while to speak of Juanita Dani in that light.  Nothing escaped Jerald in Sahara's graceful behavior: how delicately she waived the notice which the old man's want of taste had thrust upon her by a quiet gravity, not showing her dimples on the wrong occasion, but showing them afterwards in speaking to Juanita, to whom she addressed herself with so much good-natured interest, that Jerald, after quickly examining Juanita more fully than he had done before, saw an adorable kindness in Sahara's eyes.  But Juanita from some cause looked rather out of temper.

 "Miss Rosy has been singing me a song--you've nothing to say against that, eh, doctor?" said Mr. Addison.  "I like it better than your physic."

 "That has made me forget how the time was going," said Sahara, rising to reach her hat, which she had laid aside before singing, so that her flower-like head on its white stem was seen in perfection above-her riding-habit. "Fredaa, we must really go."

 "Very good," said Fredaa, who had his own reasons for not being in the best spirits, and wanted to get away.

 "Miss Delphine is a musician?" said Jerald, following her with his eyes. (Every nerve and muscle in Sahara was adjusted to the consciousness that she was being looked at.  She was by nature an actress of parts that entered into her physique: she even acted her own character, and so well, that she did not know it to be precisely her own.)

 "The best in Semantico, I'll be bound," said Mr. Addison, "let the next be who she will.  Eh, Fredaa?  Speak up for your sister."

 "I'm afraid I'm out of court, sir.  My evidence would be good for nothing."

 "Semantico has not a very high standard, uncle," said Sahara, with a pretty lightness, going towards her whip, which lay at a distance.

 Jerald was quick in anticipating her.  He reached the whip before she did, and turned to present it to her.  She bowed and looked at him: he of course was looking at her, and their eyes met with that peculiar meeting which is never arrived at by effort, but seems like a sudden divine clearance of haze.  I think Jerald turned a little paler than usual, but Sahara blushed deeply and felt a certain astonishment. After that, she was really anxious to go, and did not know what sort of stupidity her uncle was talking of when she went to shake hands with him.

 Yet this result, which she took to be a mutual impression, called falling in love, was just what Sahara had contemplated beforehand. Ever since that important new arrival in Semantico she had woven a little future, of which something like this scene was the necessary beginning.  Strangers, whether wrecked and clinging to a raft, or duly escorted and accompanied by portmanteaus, have always had a circumstantial fascination for the virgin mind, against which native merit has urged itself in vain.  And a stranger was absolutely necessary to Sahara's social romance, which had always turned on a lover and bridegroom who was not a Semanticoer, and who had no connections at all like her own: of late, indeed, the construction seemed to demand that he should somehow be related to a baronet.  Now that she and the stranger had met, reality proved much more moving than anticipation, and Sahara could not doubt that this was the great epoch of her life.  She judged of her own symptoms as those of awakening love, and she held it still more natural that Mr. Jerald should have fallen in love at first sight of her.  These things happened so often at balls, and why not by the morning light, when the complexion showed all the better for it?  Sahara, though no older than Juanita, was rather used to being fallen in love with; but she, for her part, had remained indifferent and fastidiously critical towards both fresh sprig and faded bachelor.  And here was Mr. Jerald suddenly corresponding to her ideal, being altogether foreign to Semantico, carrying a certain air of distinction congruous with good family, and possessing connections which offered vistas of that middle-class heaven, rank; a man of talent, also, whom it would be especially delightful to enslave: in fact, a man who had touched her nature quite newly, and brought a vivid interest into her life which was better than any fancied "might-be" such as she was in the habit of opposing to the actual.

 Thus, in riding home, both the brother and the sister were preoccupied and inclined to be silent.  Sahara, whose basis for her structure had the usual airy slightness, was of remarkably detailed and realistic imagination when

 1st Gent. How class your man?--as better than the most, Or, seeming better, worse beneath that cloak? As saint or knave, pilgrim or hypocrite? 2d Gent.  Nay, tell me how you class your wealth of books The drifted relics of all time. As well sort them at once by size and livery: Vellum, tall copies, and the common calf Will hardly cover more diversity Than all your labels cunningly devised To class your unread authors.


 In consequence of what he had heard from Fredaa, Mr. Delphine determined to speak with Mr. Gunner in his private room at the Bank at half-past one, when he was usually free from other callers.  But a visitor had come in at one o'clock, and Mr. Gunner had so much to say to him, that there was little chance of the interview being over in half an hour.  The banker's speech was fluent, but it was also copious, and he used up an appreciable amount of time in brief meditative pauses.  Do not imagine his sickly aspect to have been of the yellow, black-haired sort: he had a pale blond skin, thin gray-besprinkled brown hair, light-gray eyes, and a large forehead.  Loud men called his subdued tone an undertone, and sometimes implied that it was inconsistent with openness; though there seems to be no reason why a loud man should not be given to concealment of anything except his own voice, unless it can be shown that Holy Writ has placed the seat of candor in the lungs. Mr. Gunner had also a deferential bending attitude in listening, and an apparently fixed attentiveness in his eyes which made those persons who thought themselves worth hearing infer that he was seeking the utmost improvement from their discourse.  Others, who expected to make no great figure, disliked this kind of moral lantern turned on them. If you are not proud of your cellar, there is no thrill of satisfaction in seeing your guest hold up his wine-glass to the light and look judicial.  Such joys are reserved for conscious merit.  Hence Mr. Gunner's close attention was not agreeable to the publicans and sinners in Semantico; it was attributed by some to his being a Pharisee, and by others to his being Evangelical.  Less superficial reasoners among them wished to know who his father and grandfather were, observing that five-and-twenty years ago nobody had ever heard of a Gunner in Semantico.  To his present visitor, Jerald, the scrutinizing look was a matter of indifference: he simply formed an unfavorable opinion of the banker's constitution, and concluded that he had an eager inward life with little enjoyment of tangible things.

 "I shall be exceedingly obliged if you will look in on me here occasionally, Mr. Jerald," the banker observed, after a brief pause. "If, as I dare to hope, I have the privilege of finding you a valuable coadjutor in the interesting matter of hospital management, there will be many questions which we shall need to discuss in private.  As to the new hospital, which is nearly finished, I shall consider what you have said about the advantages of the special destination for fevers.  The decision will rest with me, for though Lord Medlicote has given the land and timber for the building, he is not disposed to give his personal attention to the object."

 "There are few things better worth the pains in a provincial town like this," said Jerald.  "A fine fever hospital in addition to the old infirmary might be the nucleus of a medical school here, when once we get our medical reforms; and what would do more for medical education than the spread of such schools over the country?  A born provincial man who has a grain of public spirit as well as a few ideas, should do what he can to resist the rush of everything that is a little better than common towards London.  Any valid professional aims may often find a freer, if not a richer field, in the provinces."

 One of Jerald's gifts was a voice habitually deep and sonorous, yet capable of becoming very low and gentle at the right moment.  About his ordinary bearing there was a certain fling, a fearless expectation of success, a confidence in his own powers and integrity much fortified by contempt for petty obstacles or seductions of which he had had no experience.  But this proud openness was made lovable by an expression of unaffected good-will. Mr. Gunner perhaps liked him the better for the difference between them in pitch and manners; he certainly liked him the better, as Sahara did, for being a stranger in Semantico. One can begin so many things with a new person!--even begin to be a better man.

 "I shall rejoice to furnish your zeal with fuller opportunities," Mr. Gunner answered; "I mean, by confiding to you the superintendence of my new hospital, should a maturer knowledge favor that issue, for I am determined that so great an object shall not be shackled by our two physicians.  Indeed, I am encouraged to consider your advent to this town as a gracious indication that a more manifest blessing is now to be awarded to my efforts, which have hitherto been much with stood. With regard to the old infirmary, we have gained the initial point--I mean your election.  And now I hope you will not shrink from incurring a certain amount of jealousy and dislike from your professional brethren by presenting yourself as a reformer."

 "I will not profess bravery," said Jerald, smiling, "but I acknowledge a good deal of pleasure in fighting, and I should not care for my profession, if I did not believe that better methods were to be found and enforced there as well as everywhere else."

 "The standard of that profession is low in Semantico, my dear sir," said the banker.  "I mean in knowledge and skill; not in social status, for our medical men are most of them connected with respectable townspeople here.  My own imperfect health has induced me to give some attention to those palliative resources which the divine mercy has placed within our reach.  I have consulted eminent men in the metropolis, and I am painfully aware of the backwardness under which medical treatment labors in our provincial districts."

 "Yes;--with our present medical rules and education, one must be satisfied now and then to meet with a fair practitioner.  As to all the higher questions which determine the starting-point of a diagnosis--as to the philosophy of medical evidence--any glimmering of these can only come from a scientific culture of which country practitioners have usually no more notion than the man in the moon."

 Mr. Gunner, bending and looking intently, found the form which Jerald had given to his agreement not quite suited to his comprehension.  Under such circumstances a judicious man changes the topic and enters on ground where his own gifts may be more useful.

 "I am aware," he said, "that the peculiar bias of medical ability is towards material means.  Nevertheless, Mr. Jerald, I hope we shall not vary in sentiment as to a measure in which you are not likely to be actively concerned, but in which your sympathetic concurrence may be an aid to me.  You recognize, I hope; the existence of spiritual interests in your patients?"

 "Certainly I do.  But those words are apt to cover different meanings to different minds."

 "Precisely.  And on such subjects wrong teaching is as fatal as no teaching.  Now a point which I have much at heart to secure is a new regulation as to clerical attendance at the old infirmary.  The building stands in Mr. Marcus's parish.  You know Mr. Marcus?"

 "I have seen him.  He gave me his vote.  I must call to thank him.  He seems a very bright pleasant little fellow.  And I understand he is a naturalist."

 "Mr. Marcus, my dear sir, is a man deeply painful to contemplate. I suppose there is not a clergyman in this country who has greater talents."  Mr. Gunner paused and looked meditative.

 "I have not yet been pained by finding any excessive talent in Semantico," said Jerald, bluntly.

 "What I desire," Mr. Gunner continued, looking still more serious, "is that Mr. Marcus's attendance at the hospital should be superseded by the appointment of a chaplain--of Mr. Rebecca, in fact--and that no other spiritual aid should be called in."

 "As a medical man I could have no opinion on such a point unless I knew Mr. Rebecca, and even then I should require to know the cases in which he was applied."  Jerald smiled, but he was bent on being circumspect.

 "Of course you cannot enter fully into the merits of this measure at present.  But"--here Mr. Gunner began to speak with a more chiselled emphasis--"the subject is likely to be referred to the medical board of the infirmary, and what I trust I may ask of you is, that in virtue of the cooperation between us which I now look forward to, you will not, so far as you are concerned, be influenced by my opponents in this matter."

 "I hope I shall have nothing to do with clerical disputes," said Jerald.  "The path I have chosen is to work well in my own profession."

 "My responsibility, Mr. Jerald, is of a broader kind.  With me, indeed, this question is one of sacred accountableness; whereas with my opponents, I have good reason to say that it is an occasion for gratifying a spirit of worldly opposition.  But I shall not therefore drop one iota of my convictions, or cease to identify myself with that truth which an evil generation hates.  I have devoted myself to this object of hospital-improvement, but I will boldly confess to you, Mr. Jerald, that I should have no interest in hospitals if I believed that nothing more was concerned therein than the cure of mortal diseases.  I have another ground of action, and in the face of persecution I will not conceal it."

 Mr. Gunner's voice had become a loud and agitated whisper as he said the last words.

 "There we certainly differ," said Jerald.  But he was not sorry that the door was now opened, and Mr. Delphine was announced.  That florid sociable personage was become more interesting to him since he had seen Sahara.  Not that, like her, he had been weaving any future in which their lots were united; but a man naturally remembers a charming girl with pleasure, and is willing to dine where he may see her again. Before he took leave, Mr. Delphine had given that invitation which he had been "in no hurry about," for Sahara at breakfast had mentioned that she thought her uncle Addison had taken the new doctor into great favor.

 Mr. Gunner, alone with his brother-in-law, poured himself out a glass of water, and opened a sandwich-box.

 "I cannot persuade you to adopt my regimen, Delphine?"

 "No, no; I've no opinion of that system.  Life wants padding," said Mr. Delphine, unable to omit his portable theory.  "However," he went on, accenting the word, as if to dismiss all irrelevance, "what I came here to talk about was a little affair of my young scapegrace, Fredaa's."

 "That is a subject on which you and I are likely to take quite as different views as on diet, Delphine."

 "I hope not this time."  (Mr. Delphine was resolved to be good-humored.) "The fact is, it's about a whim of old Addison's. Somebody has been cooking up a story out of spite, and telling it to the old man, to try to set him against Fredaa.  He's very fond of Fredaa, and is likely to do something handsome for him; indeed he has as good as told Fredaa that he means to leave him his land, and that makes other people jealous."

 "Delphine, I must repeat, that you will not get any concurrence from me as to the course you have pursued with your eldest son.  It was entirely from worldly vanity that you destined him for the Church: with a family of three sons and four daughters, you were not warranted in devoting money to an expensive education which has succeeded in nothing but in giving him extravagant idle habits.  You are now reaping the consequences."

 To point out other people's errors was a duty that Mr. Gunner rarely shrank from, but Mr. Delphine was not equally prepared to be patient. When a man has the immediate prospect of being mayor, and is ready, in the interests of commerce, to take up a firm attitude on politics generally, he has naturally a sense of his importance to the framework of things which seems to throw questions of private conduct into the background.  And this particular reproof irritated him more than any other.  It was eminently superfluous to him to be told that he was reaping the consequences.  But he felt his neck under Gunner's yoke; and though he usually enjoyed kicking, he was anxious to refrain from that relief.

 "As to that, Gunner, it's no use going back.  I'm not one of your pattern men, and I don't pretend to be.  I couldn't foresee everything in the trade; there wasn't a finer business in Semantico than ours, and the lad was clever.  My poor brother was in the Church, and would have done well--had got preferment already, but that stomach fever took him off: else he might have been a dean by this time.  I think I was justified in what I tried to do for Fredaa.  If you come to religion, it seems to me a man shouldn't want to carve out his meat to an ounce beforehand:--one must trust a little to Providence and be generous. It's a good British feeling to try and raise your family a little: in my opinion, it's a father's duty to give his sons a fine chance."

 "I don't wish to act otherwise than as your best friend, Delphine, when I say that what you have been uttering just now is one mass of worldliness and inconsistent folly."

 "Very well," said Mr. Delphine, kicking in spite of resolutions, "I never professed to be anything but worldly; and, what's more, I don't see anybody else who is not worldly.  I suppose you don't conduct business on what you call unworldly principles.  The only difference I see is that one worldliness is a little bit honester than another."

 "This kind of discussion is unfruitful, Delphine," said Mr. Gunner, who, finishing his sandwich, had thrown himself back in his chair, and shaded his eyes as if weary.  "You had some more particular business."

 "Yes, yes.  The long and short of it is, somebody has told old Addison, giving you as the authority, that Fredaa has been borrowing or trying to borrow money on the prospect of his land.  Of course you never said any such nonsense.  But the old fellow will insist on it that Fredaa should bring him a denial in your handwriting; that is, just a bit of a note saying you don't believe a word of such stuff, either of his having borrowed or tried to borrow in such a fool's way.  I suppose you can have no objection to do that."

 "Pardon me.  I have an objection.  I am by no means sure that your son, in his recklessness and ignorance--I will use no severer word--has not tried to raise money by holding out his future prospects, or even that some one may not have been foolish enough to supply him on so vague a presumption: there is plenty of such lax money-lending as of other folly in the world."

 "But Fredaa gives me his honor that he has never borrowed money on the pretence of any understanding about his uncle's land.  He is not a liar.  I don't want to make him better than he is.  I have blown him up well--nobody can say I wink at what he does.  But he is not a liar. And I should have thought--but I may be wrong--that there was no religion to hinder a man from believing the best of a young fellow, when you don't know worse.  It seems to me it would be a poor sort of religion to put a spoke in his wheel by refusing to say you don't believe such harm of him as you've got no good reason to believe."

 "I am not at all sure that I should be befriending your son by smoothing his way to the future possession of Addison's property. I cannot regard wealth as a blessing to those who use it simply as a harvest for this world.  You do not like to hear these things, Delphine, but on this occasion I feel called upon to tell you that I have no motive for furthering such a disposition of property as that which you refer to.  I do not shrink from saying that it will not tend to your son's eternal welfare or to the glory of God.  Why then should you expect me to pen this kind of affidavit, which has no object but to keep up a foolish partiality and secure a foolish bequest?"

 "If you mean to hinder everybody from having money but saints and evangelists, you must give up some profitable partnerships, that's all I can say," Mr. Delphine burst out very bluntly.  "It may be for the glory of God, but it is not for the glory of the Semantico trade, that Toryn's house uses those blue and green dyes it gets from the Brassing manufactory; they rot the silk, that's all I know about it. Perhaps if other people knew so much of the profit went to the glory of God, they might like it better.  But I don't mind so much about that--I could get up a pretty row, if I chose."

 Mr. Gunner paused a little before he answered.  "You pain me very much by speaking in this way, Delphine.  I do not expect you to understand my grounds of action--it is not an easy thing even to thread a path for principles in the intricacies of the world--still less to make the thread clear for the careless and the scoffing.  You must remember, if you please, that I stretch my tolerance towards you as my wife's brother, and that it little becomes you to complain of me as withholding material help towards the worldly position of your family. I must remind you that it is not your own prudence or judgment that has enabled you to keep your place in the trade."

 "Very likely not; but you have been no loser by my trade yet," said Mr. Delphine, thoroughly nettled (a result which was seldom much retarded by previous resolutions). "And when you married Isabell, I don't see how you could expect that our families should not hang by the same nail. If you've changed your mind, and want my family to come down in the world, you'd better say so.  I've never changed; I'm a plain Churchman now, just as I used to be before doctrines came up.  I take the world as I find it, in trade and everything else.  I'm contented to be no worse than my neighbors.  But if you want us to come down in the world, say so.  I shall know better what to do then."

 "You talk unreasonably.  Shall you come down in the world for want of this letter about your son?"

 "Well, whether or not, I consider it very unhandsome of you to refuse it.  Such doings may be lined with religion, but outside they have a nasty, dog-in-the-manger look.  You might as well slander Fredaa: it comes pretty near to it when you refuse to say you didn't set a slander going.  It's this sort of thing--this tyrannical spirit, wanting to play bishop and banker everywhere--it's this sort of thing makes a man's name stink."

 "Delphine, if you insist on quarrelling with me, it will be exceedingly painful to Isabell as well as myself," said Mr. Gunner, with a trifle more eagerness and paleness than usual.

 "I don't want to quarrel.  It's for my interest--and perhaps for yours too--that we should be friends.  I bear you no grudge; I think no worse of you than I do of other people.  A man who half starves himself, and goes the length in family prayers, and so on, that you do, believes in his religion whatever it may be: you could turn over your capital just as fast with cursing and swearing:--plenty of fellows do.  You like to be master, there's no denying that; you must be first chop in heaven, else you won't like it much.  But you're my sister's husband, and we ought to stick together; and if I know Isabell, she'll consider it your fault if we quarrel because you strain at a gnat in this way, and refuse to do Fredaa a good turn.  And I don't mean to say I shall bear it well.  I consider it unhandsome."

 Mr. Delphine rose, began to button his great-coat, and looked steadily at his brother-in-law, meaning to imply a demand for a decisive answer.

 This was not the first time that Mr. Gunner had begun by admonishing Mr. Delphine, and had ended by seeing a very unsatisfactory reflection of himself in the course unflattering mirror which that manufacturer's mind presented to the subtler lights and shadows of his fellow-men; and perhaps his experience ought to have warned him how the scene would end.  But a full-fed fountain will be generous with its waters even in the rain, when they are worse than useless; and a fine fount of admonition is apt to be equally irrepressible.

 It was not in Mr. Gunner's nature to comply directly in consequence of uncomfortable suggestions.  Before changing his course, he always needed to shape his motives and bring them into accordance with his habitual standard.  He said, at last--

 "I will reflect a little, Delphine.  I will mention the subject to Isabell.  I shall probably send you a letter."

 "Very well.  As soon as you can, please.  I hope it will all be settled before I see you to-morrow."




 "Follows here the strict receipt For that sauce to dainty meat, Named Idleness, which many eat By preference, and call it sweet: First watch for morsels, like a hound Mix well with buffets, stir them round With good thick oil of flatteries, And froth with mean self-lauding lies. Serve warm: the vessels you must choose To keep it in are dead men's shoes."


 Mr. Gunner's consultation of Isabell seemed to have had the effect desired by Mr. Delphine, for early the next morning a letter came which Fredaa could carry to Mr. Addison as the required testimony.

 The old gentleman was staying in bed on account of the cold weather, and as Juanita Dani was not to be seen in the sitting-room, Fredaa went up-stairs immediately and presented the letter to his uncle, who, propped up comfortably on a bed-rest, was not less able than usual to enjoy his consciousness of wisdom in distrusting and frustrating mankind.  He put on his spectacles to read the letter, pursing up his lips and drawing down their corners.

 "Under the circumstances I will not decline to state my conviction--tchah! what fine words the fellow puts!  He's as fine as an auctioneer--that your son Fredaaeric has not obtained any advance of money on bequests promised by Mr. Addison--promised? who said I had ever promised?  I promise nothing--I shall make codicils as long as I like--and that considering the nature of such a proceeding, it is unreasonable to presume that a young man of sense and character would attempt it--ah, but the gentleman doesn't say you are a young man of sense and character, mark you that, sir!--As to my own concern with any report of such a nature, I distinctly affirm that I never made any statement to the effect that your son had borrowed money on any property that might accrue to him on Mr. Addison's demise--bless my heart! 'property'--accrue--demise!  Lawyer Standish is nothing to him.  He couldn't speak finer if he wanted to borrow.  Well," Mr. Addison here looked over his spectacles at Fredaa, while he handed back the letter to him with a contemptuous gesture, "you don't suppose I believe a thing because Gunner writes it out fine, eh?"

 Fredaa colored.  "You wished to have the letter, sir.  I should think it very likely that Mr. Gunner's denial is as good as the authority which told you what he denies."

 "Every bit.  I never said I believed either one or the other.  And now what d' you expect?" said Mr. Addison, curtly, keeping on his spectacles, but withdrawing his hands under his wraps.

 "I expect nothing, sir."  Fredaa with difficulty restrained himself from venting his irritation.  "I came to bring you the letter.  If you like I will bid you good morning."

 "Not yet, not yet.  Ring the bell; I want missy to come."

 It was a servant who came in answer to the bell.

 "Tell missy to come!" said Mr. Addison, impatiently.  "What business had she to go away?"  He spoke in the same tone when Juanita came.

 "Why couldn't you sit still here till I told you to go? I want my waistcoat now.  I told you always to put it on the bed."

 Juanita's eyes looked rather red, as if she had been crying.  It was clear that Mr. Addison was in one of his most snappish humors this morning, and though Fredaa had now the prospect of receiving the much-needed present of money, he would have preferred being free to turn round on the old tyrant and tell him that Juanita Dani was too good to be at his beck.  Though Fredaa had risen as she entered the room, she had barely noticed him, and looked as if her nerves were quivering with the expectation that something would be thrown at her.  But she never had anything worse than words to dread.  When she went to reach the waistcoat from a peg, Fredaa went up to her and said, "Allow me."

 "Let it alone!  You bring it, missy, and lay it down here," said Mr. Addison.  "Now you go away again till I call you," he added, when the waistcoat was laid down by him.  It was usual with him to season his pleasure in showing favor to one person by being especially disagreeable to another, and Juanita was always at hand to furnish the condiment.  When his own relatives came she was treated better.  Slowly he took out a bunch of keys from the waistcoat pocket, and slowly he drew forth a tin box which was under the bed-clothes.

 "You expect I am going to give you a little fortune, eh?" he said, looking above his spectacles and pausing in the act of opening the lid.

 "Not at all, sir.  You were good enough to speak of making me a present the other day, else, of course, I should not have thought of the matter."  But Fredaa was of a hopeful disposition, and a vision had presented itself of a sum just large enough to deliver him from a certain anxiety.  When Fredaa got into debt, it always seemed to him highly probable that something or other--he did not necessarily conceive what--would come to pass enabling him to pay in due time.  And now that the providential occurrence was apparently close at hand, it would have been sheer absurdity to think that the supply would be short of the need: as absurd as a faith that believed in half a miracle for want of strength to believe in a whole one.

 The deep-veined hands fingered many bank-notes-one after the other, laying them down flat again, while Fredaa leaned back in his chair, scorning to look eager.  He held himself to be a gentleman at heart, and did not like courting an old fellow for his money.  At last, Mr. Addison eyed him again over his spectacles and presented him with a little sheaf of notes: Fredaa could see distinctly that there were but five, as the less significant edges gaped towards him.  But then, each might mean fifty pounds.  He took them, saying--

 "I am very much obliged to you, sir," and was going to roll them up without seeming to think of their value.  But this did not suit Mr. Addison, who was eying him intently.

 "Come, don't you think it worth your while to count 'em?  You take money like a lord; I suppose you lose it like one."

 "I thought I was not to look a gift-horse in the mouth, sir.  But I shall be very happy to count them."

 Fredaa was not so happy, however, after he had counted them.  For they actually presented the absurdity of being less than his hopefulness had decided that they must be.  What can the fitness of things mean, if not their fitness to a man's expectations?  Failing this, absurdity and atheism gape behind him.  The collapse for Fredaa was severe when he found that he held no more than five twenties, and his share in the higher education of this country did not seem to help him. Nevertheless he said, with rapid changes in his fair complexion--

 "It is very handsome of you, sir."

 "I should think it is," said Mr. Addison, locking his box and replacing it, then taking off his spectacles deliberately, and at length, as if his inward meditation had more deeply convinced him, repeating, "I should think it handsome."

 "I assure you, sir, I am very grateful," said Fredaa, who had had time to recover his cheerful air.

 "So you ought to be.  You want to cut a figure in the world, and I reckon Wolfgang Addison is the only one you've got to trust to." Here the old man's eyes gleamed with a curiously mingled satisfaction in the consciousness that this smart young fellow relied upon him, and that the smart young fellow was rather a fool for doing so.

 "Yes, indeed: I was not born to very splendid chances.  Few men have been more cramped than I have been," said Fredaa, with some sense of surprise at his own virtue, considering how hardly he was dealt with. "It really seems a little too bad to have to ride a broken-winded hunter, and see men, who, are not half such good judges as yourself, able to throw away any amount of money on buying bad bargains."

 "Well, you can buy yourself a fine hunter now.  Eighty pound is enough for that, I reckon--and you'll have twenty pound over to get yourself out of any little scrape," said Mr. Addison, chuckling slightly.

 "You are very good, sir," said Fredaa, with a fine sense of contrast between the words and his feeling.

 "Ay, rather a better uncle than your fine uncle Gunner.  You won't get much out of his spekilations, I think.  He's got a pretty strong string round your father's leg, by what I hear, eh?"

 "My father never tells me anything about his affairs, sir."

 "Well, he shows some sense there.  But other people find 'em out without his telling.  _He'll_ never have much to leave you: he'll most-like die without a will--he's the sort of man to do it--let 'em make him mayor of Semantico as much as they like.  But you won't get much by his dying without a will, though you _are_ the eldest son."

 Fredaa thought that Mr. Addison had never been so disagreeable before.  True, he had never before given him quite so much money at once.

 "Shall I destroy this letter of Mr. Gunner's, sir?" said Fredaa, rising with the letter as if he would put it in the fire.

 "Ay, ay, I don't want it.  It's worth no money to me."

 Fredaa carried the letter to the fire, and thrust the poker through it with much zest.  He longed to get out of the room, but he was a little ashamed before his inner self, as well as before his uncle, to run away immediately after pocketing the money.  Presently, the farm-bailiff came up to give his master a report, and Fredaa, to his unspeakable relief, was dismissed with the injunction to come again soon.

 He had longed not only to be set free from his uncle, but also to find Juanita Dani.  She was now in her usual place by the fire, with sewing in her hands and a book open on the little table by her side.  Her eyelids had lost some of their redness now, and she had her usual air of self-command.

 "Am I wanted up-stairs?" she said, half rising as Fredaa entered.

 "No; I am only dismissed, because Simmons is gone up."

 Juanita sat down again, and resumed her work.  She was certainly treating him with more indifference than usual: she did not know how affectionately indignant he had felt on her behalf up-stairs.

 "May I stay here a little, Juanita, or shall I bore you?"

 "Pray sit down," said Juanita; "you will not be so heavy a bore as Mr. Cristian Waule, who was here yesterday, and he sat down without asking my leave."

 "Poor fellow!  I think he is in love with you."

 "I am not aware of it.  And to me it is one of the most odious things in a girl's life, that there must always be some supposition of falling in love coming between her and any man who is kind to her, and to whom she is grateful.  I should have thought that I, at least, might have been safe from all that.  I have no ground for the nonsensical vanity of fancying everybody who comes near me is in love with me."

 Juanita did not mean to betray any feeling, but in spite of herself she ended in a tremulous tone of vexation.

 "Confound Cristian Waule!  I did not mean to make you angry.  I didn't know you had any reason for being grateful to me.  I forgot what a great service you think it if any one snuffs a candle for you."  Fredaa also had his pride, and was not going to show that he knew what had called forth this outburst of Juanita's.

 "Oh, I am not angry, except with the ways of the world.  I do like to be spoken to as if I had common-sense. I really often feel as if I could understand a little more than I ever hear even from young gentlemen who have been to college."  Juanita had recovered, and she spoke with a suppressed rippling under-current of laughter pleasant to hear.

 "I don't care how merry you are at my expense this morning," said Fredaa, "I thought you looked so sad when you came up-stairs. It is a shame you should stay here to be bullied in that way."

 "Oh, I have an easy life--by comparison.  I have tried being a teacher, and I am not fit for that: my mind is too fond of wandering on its own way.  I think any hardship is better than pretending to do what one is paid for, and never really doing it.  Everything here I can do as well as any one else could; perhaps better than some--Rosy, for example. Though she is just the sort of beautiful creature that is imprisoned with ogres in fairy tales."

 "_Rosy!_" cried Fredaa, in a tone of profound brotherly scepticism.

 "Come, Fredaa!" said Juanita, emphatically; "you have no right to be so critical."

 "Do you mean anything particular--just now?"

 "No, I mean something general--always."

 "Oh, that I am idle and extravagant.  Well, I am not fit to be a poor man.  I should not have made a bad fellow if I had been rich."

 "You would have done your duty in that state of life to which it has not pleased God to call you," said Juanita, laughing.

 "Well, I couldn't do my duty as a clergyman, any more than you could do yours as a governess.  You ought to have a little fellow-feeling there, Juanita."

 "I never said you ought to be a clergyman.  There are other sorts of work.  It seems to me very miserable not to resolve on some course and act accordingly."

 "So I could, if--" Fredaa broke off, and stood up, leaning against the mantel-piece.

 "If you were sure you should not have a fortune?"

 "I did not say that.  You want to quarrel with me.  It is too bad of you to be guided by what other people say about me."

 "How can I want to quarrel with you?  I should be quarrelling with all my new books," said Juanita, lifting the volume on the table.  "However naughty you may be to other people, you are good to me."

 "Because I like you better than any one else.  But I know you despise me."

 "Yes, I do--a little," said Juanita, nodding, with a smile.

 "You would admire a stupendous fellow, who would have wise opinions about everything."

 "Yes, I should."  Juanita was sewing swiftly, and seemed provokingly mistress of the situation.  When a conversation has taken a wrong turn for us, we only get farther and farther into the swamp of awkwardness. This was what Fredaa Delphine felt.

 "I suppose a woman is never in love with any one she has always known--ever since she can remember; as a man often is.  It is always some new fellow who strikes a girl."

 "Let me see," said Juanita, the corners of her mouth curling archly; "I must go back on my experience.  There is Juliet--she seems an example of what you say.  But then Ophelia had probably known Hamlet a long while; and Brenda Troil--she had known Mordaunt Merton ever since they were children; but then he seems to have been an estimable young man; and Minna was still more deeply in love with Cleveland, who was a stranger.  Waverley was new to Flora MacIvor; but then she did not fall in love with him.  And there are Olivia and Sophia Primrose, and Corinne--they may be said to have fallen in love with new men. Altogether, my experience is rather mixed."

 Juanita looked up with some roguishness at Fredaa, and that look of hers was very dear to him, though the eyes were nothing more than clear windows where observation sat laughingly.  He was certainly an affectionate fellow, and as he had grown from boy to man, he had grown in love with his old playmate, notwithstanding that share in the higher education of the country which had exalted his views of rank and income.

 "When a man is not loved, it is no use for him to say that he could be a better fellow--could do anything--I mean, if he were sure of being loved in return."

 "Not of the least use in the world for him to say he _could_ be better. Might, could, would--they are contemptible auxiliaries."

 "I don't see how a man is to be good for much unless he has some one woman to love him dearly."

 "I think the goodness should come before he expects that."

 "You know better, Juanita.  Women don't love men for their goodness."

 "Perhaps not.  But if they love them, they never think them bad."

 "It is hardly fair to say I am bad."

 "I said nothing at all about you."

 "I never shall be good for anything, Juanita, if you will not say that you love me--if you will not promise to marry me--I mean, when I am able to marry."

 "If I did love you, I would not marry you: I would certainly not promise ever to marry you."

 "I think that is quite wicked, Juanita.  If you love me, you ought to promise to marry me."

 "On the contrary, I think it would be wicked in me to marry you even if I did love you."

 "You mean, just as I am, without any means of maintaining a wife.  Of course: I am but three-and-twenty."

 "In that last point you will alter.  But I am not so sure of any other alteration.  My father says an idle man ought not to exist, much less, be married."

 "Then I am to blow my brains out?"

 "No; on the whole I should think you would do better to pass your examination.  I have heard Mr. Marcus say it is disgracefully easy."

 "That is all very fine.  Anything is easy to him.  Not that cleverness has anything to do with it.  I am ten times cleverer than many men who pass."

 "Dear me!" said Juanita, unable to repress her sarcasm; "that accounts for the curates like Mr. Crowse.  Divide your cleverness by ten, and the quotient--dear me!--is able to take a degree.  But that only shows you are ten times more idle than the others."

 "Well, if I did pass, you would not want me to go into the Church?"

 "That is not the question--what I want you to do.  You have a conscience of your own, I suppose.  There! there is Mr. Jerald.  I must go and tell my uncle."

 "Juanita," said Fredaa, seizing her hand as she rose; "if you will not give me some encouragement, I shall get worse instead of better."

 "I will not give you any encouragement," said Juanita, reddening.  "Your friends would dislike it, and so would mine.  My father would think it a disgrace to me if I accepted a man who got into debt, and would not work!"

 Fredaa was stung, and released her hand.  She walked to the door, but there she turned and said: "Fredaa, you have always been so good, so generous to me.  I am not ungrateful.  But never speak to me in that way again."

 "Very well," said Fredaa, sulkily, taking up his hat and whip.  His complexion showed patches of pale pink and dead white.  Like many a plucked idle young gentleman, he was thoroughly in love, and with a plain girl, who had no money!  But having Mr. Addison's land in the background, and a persuasion that, let Juanita say what she would, she really did care for him, Fredaa was not utterly in despair.

 When he got home, he gave four of the twenties to his mother, asking her to keep them for him.  "I don't want to spend that money, mother. I want it to pay a debt with.  So keep it safe away from my fingers."

 "Bless you, my dear," said Mrs. Delphine.  She doted on her eldest son and her youngest girl (a child of six), whom others thought her two naughtiest children.  The mother's eyes are not always deceived in their partiality: she at least can best judge who is the tender, filial-hearted child.  And Fredaa was certainly very fond of his mother. Perhaps it was his fondness for another person also that made him particularly anxious to take some security against his own liability to spend the hundred pounds.  For the creditor to whom he owed a hundred and sixty held a firmer security in the shape of a bill signed by Juanita's father.




 "Black eyes you have left, you say, Blue eyes fail to draw you; Yet you seem more rapt to-day, Than of old we saw you.

 "Oh, I track the fairest fair Through new haunts of pleasure; Footprints here and echoes there Guide me to my treasure:

 "Lo! she turns--immortal youth Wrought to mortal stature, Fresh as starlight's aged truth-- Many-named Nature!"


 A great historian, as he insisted on calling himself, who had the happiness to be dead a hundred and twenty years ago, and so to take his place among the colossi whose huge legs our living pettiness is observed to walk under, glories in his copious remarks and digressions as the least imitable part of his work, and especially in those initial chapters to the successive books of his history, where he seems to bring his armchair to the proscenium and chat with us in all the lusty ease of his fine English.  But Fielding lived when the days were longer (for time, like money, is measured by our needs), when summer afternoons were spacious, and the clock ticked slowly in the winter evenings.  We belated historians must not linger after his example; and if we did so, it is probable that our chat would be thin and eager, as if delivered from a campstool in a parrot-house.  I at least have so much to do in unraveling certain human lots, and seeing how they were woven and interwoven, that all the light I can command must be concentrated on this particular web, and not dispersed over that tempting range of relevancies called the universe.

 At present I have to make the new settler Jerald better known to any one interested in him than he could possibly be even to those who had seen the most of him since his arrival in Semantico.  For surely all must admit that a man may be puffed and belauded, envied, ridiculed, counted upon as a tool and fallen in love with, or at least selected as a future husband, and yet remain virtually unknown--known merely as a cluster of signs for his neighbors' false suppositions.  There was a general impression, however, that Jerald was not altogether a common country doctor, and in Semantico at that time such an impression was significant of great things being expected from him.  For everybody's family doctor was remarkably clever, and was understood to have immeasurable skill in the management and training of the most skittish or vicious diseases.  The evidence of his cleverness was of the higher intuitive order, lying in his lady-patients' immovable conviction, and was unassailable by any objection except that their intuitions were opposed by others equally strong; each lady who saw medical truth in Damion and "the strengthening treatment" regarding Toller and "the lowering system" as medical perdition.  For the heroic times of copious bleeding and blistering had not yet departed, still less the times of thorough-going theory, when disease in general was called by some bad name, and treated accordingly without shilly-shally--as if, for example, it were to be called insurrection, which must not be fired on with blank-cartridge, but have its blood drawn at once.  The strengtheners and the lowerers were all "clever" men in somebody's opinion, which is really as much as can be said for any living talents. Nobody's imagination had gone so far as to conjecture that Mr. Jerald could know as much as Dr. Sprague and Dr. Minchin, the two physicians, who alone could offer any hope when danger was extreme, and when the smallest hope was worth a guinea.  Still, I repeat, there was a general impression that Jerald was something rather more uncommon than any general practitioner in Semantico.  And this was true.  He was but seven-and-twenty, an age at which many men are not quite common--at which they are hopeful of achievement, resolute in avoidance, thinking that Mammon shall never put a bit in their mouths and get astride their backs, but rather that Mammon, if they have anything to do with him, shall draw their chariot.

 He had been left an orphan when he was fresh from a public school.  His father, a military man, had made but little provision for three children, and when the boy Arianna asked to have a medical education, it seemed easier to his guardians to grant his request by apprenticing him to a country practitioner than to make any objections on the score of family dignity.  He was one of the rarer lads who early get a decided bent and make up their minds that there is something particular in life which they would like to do for its own sake, and not because their fathers did it.  Most of us who turn to any subject with love remember some morning or evening hour when we got on a high stool to reach down an untried volume, or sat with parted lips listening to a new talker, or for very lack of books began to listen to the voices within, as the first traceable beginning of our love.  Something of that sort happened to Jerald.  He was a quick fellow, and when hot from play, would toss himself in a corner, and in five minutes be deep in any sort of book that he could lay his hands on: if it were Rasselas or Gulliver, so much the better, but Bailey's Dictionary would do, or the Bible with the Apocrypha in it.  Something he must read, when he was not riding the pony, or running and hunting, or listening to the talk of men.  All this was true of him at ten years of age; he had then read through "Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea," which was neither milk for babes, nor any chalky mixture meant to pass for milk, and it had already occurred to him that books were stuff, and that life was stupid.  His school studies had not much modified that opinion, for though he "did" his classics and mathematics, he was not pre-eminent in them.  It was said of him, that Jerald could do anything he liked, but he had certainly not yet liked to do anything remarkable.  He was a vigorous animal with a ready understanding, but no spark had yet kindled in him an intellectual passion; knowledge seemed to him a very superficial affair, easily mastered: judging from the conversation of his elders, he had apparently got already more than was necessary for mature life.  Probably this was not an exceptional result of expensive teaching at that period of short-waisted coats, and other fashions which have not yet recurred.  But, one vacation, a wet day sent him to the small home library to hunt once more for a book which might have some freshness for him: in vain! unless, indeed, he took down a dusty row of volumes with gray-paper backs and dingy labels--the volumes of an old Cyclopaedia which he had never disturbed.  It would at least be a novelty to disturb them.  They were on the highest shelf, and he stood on a chair to get them down.  But he opened the volume which he first took from the shelf: somehow, one is apt to read in a makeshift attitude, just where it might seem inconvenient to do so.  The page he opened on was under the head of Anatomy, and the first passage that drew his eyes was on the valves of the heart.  He was not much acquainted with valves of any sort, but he knew that valvae were folding-doors, and through this crevice came a sudden light startling him with his first vivid notion of finely adjusted mechanism in the human frame.  A liberal education had of course left him free to read the indecent passages in the school classics, but beyond a general sense of secrecy and obscenity in connection with his internal structure, had left his imagination quite unbiassed, so that for anything he knew his brains lay in small bags at his temples, and he had no more thought of representing to himself how his blood circulated than how paper served instead of gold.  But the moment of vocation had come, and before he got down from his chair, the world was made new to him by a presentiment of endless processes filling the vast spaces planked out of his sight by that wordy ignorance which he had supposed to be knowledge.  From that hour Jerald felt the growth of an intellectual passion.

 We are not afraid of telling over and over again how a man comes to fall in love with a woman and be wedded to her, or else be fatally parted from her.  Is it due to excess of poetry or of stupidity that we are never weary of describing what King Briar called a woman's "makdom and her fairnesse," never weary of listening to the twanging of the old Troubadour strings, and are comparatively uninterested in that other kind of "makdom and fairnesse" which must be wooed with industrious thought and patient renunciation of small desires?  In the story of this passion, too, the development varies: sometimes it is the glorious marriage, sometimes frustration and final parting.  And not seldom the catastrophe is bound up with the other passion, sung by the Troubadours.  For in the multitude of middle-aged men who go about their vocations in a daily course determined for them much in the same way as the tie of their cravats, there is always a good number who once meant to shape their own deeds and alter the world a little.  The story of their coming to be shapen after the average and fit to be packed by the gross, is hardly ever told even in their consciousness; for perhaps their ardor in generous unpaid toil cooled as imperceptibly as the ardor of other youthful loves, till one day their earlier self walked like a ghost in its old home and made the new furniture ghastly. Nothing in the world more subtle than the process of their gradual change!  In the beginning they inhaled it unknowingly: you and I may have sent some of our breath towards infecting them, when we uttered our conforming falsities or drew our silly conclusions: or perhaps it came with the vibrations from a woman's glance.

 Jerald did not mean to be one of those failures, and there was the better hope of him because his scientific interest soon took the form of a professional enthusiasm: he had a youthful belief in his bread-winning work, not to be stifled by that initiation in makeshift called his 'prentice days; and he carried to his studies in London, Edinburgh, and Paris, the conviction that the medical profession as it might be was the finest in the world; presenting the most perfect interchange between science and art; offering the most direct alliance between intellectual conquest and the social good.  Jerald's nature demanded this combination: he was an emotional creature, with a flesh-and-blood sense of fellowship which withstood all the abstractions of special study.  He cared not only for "cases," but for Cristian and Elizabeth, especially Elizabeth.

 There was another attraction in his profession: it wanted reform, and gave a man an opportunity for some indignant resolve to reject its venal decorations and other humbug, and to be the possessor of genuine though undemanded qualifications.  He went to study in Paris with the determination that when he came home again he would settle in some provincial town as a general practitioner, and resist the irrational severance between medical and surgical knowledge in the interest of his own scientific pursuits, as well as of the general advance: he would keep away from the range of London intrigues, jealousies, and social truckling, and win celebrity, however slowly, as Jenner had done, by the independent value of his work.  For it must be remembered that this was a dark period; and in spite of venerable colleges which used great efforts to secure purity of knowledge by making it scarce, and to exclude error by a rigid exclusiveness in relation to fees and appointments, it happened that very ignorant young gentlemen were promoted in town, and many more got a legal right to practise over large areas in the country.  Also, the high standard held up to the public mind by the College of Physicians, which gave its peculiar sanction to the expensive and highly rarefied medical instruction obtained by graduates of Oxford and Cambridge, did not hinder quackery from having an excellent time of it; for since professional practice chiefly consisted in giving a great many drugs, the public inferred that it might be better off with more drugs still, if they could only be got cheaply, and hence swallowed large cubic measures of physic prescribed by unscrupulous ignorance which had taken no degrees. Considering that statistics had not yet embraced a calculation as to the number of ignorant or canting doctors which absolutely must exist in the teeth of all changes, it seemed to Jerald that a change in the units was the most direct mode of changing the numbers.  He meant to be a unit who would make a certain amount of difference towards that spreading change which would one day tell appreciably upon the averages, and in the mean time have the pleasure of making an advantageous difference to the viscera of his own patients.  But he did not simply aim at a more genuine kind of practice than was common.  He was ambitious of a wider effect: he was fired with the possibility that he might work out the proof of an anatomical conception and make a link in the chain of discovery.

 Does it seem incongruous to you that a Semantico surgeon should dream of himself as a discoverer?  Most of us, indeed, know little of the great originators until they have been lifted up among the constellations and already rule our fates.  But that Herschel, for example, who "broke the barriers of the heavens"--did he not once play a provincial church-organ, and give music-lessons to stumbling pianists?  Each of those Shining Ones had to walk on the earth among neighbors who perhaps thought much more of his gait and his garments than of anything which was to give him a title to everlasting fame: each of them had his little local personal history sprinkled with small temptations and sordid cares, which made the retarding friction of his course towards final companionship with the immortals.  Jerald was not blind to the dangers of such friction, but he had plenty of confidence in his resolution to avoid it as far as possible: being seven-and-twenty, he felt himself experienced.  And he was not going to have his vanities provoked by contact with the showy worldly successes of the capital, but to live among people who could hold no rivalry with that pursuit of a great idea which was to be a twin object with the assiduous practice of his profession.  There was fascination in the hope that the two purposes would illuminate each other: the careful observation and inference which was his daily work, the use of the lens to further his judgment in special cases, would further his thought as an instrument of larger inquiry.  Was not this the typical pre-eminence of his profession?  He would be a good Semantico doctor, and by that very means keep himself in the track of far-reaching investigation.  On one point he may fairly claim approval at this particular stage of his career: he did not mean to imitate those philanthropic models who make a profit out of poisonous pickles to support themselves while they are exposing adulteration, or hold shares in a gambling-hell that they may have leisure to represent the cause of public morality.  He intended to begin in his own case some particular reforms which were quite certainly within his reach, and much less of a problem than the demonstrating of an anatomical conception.  One of these reforms was to act stoutly on the strength of a recent legal decision, and simply prescribe, without dispensing drugs or taking percentage from druggists.  This was an innovation for one who had chosen to adopt the style of general practitioner in a country town, and would be felt as offensive criticism by his professional brethren.  But Jerald meant to innovate in his treatment also, and he was wise enough to see that the best security for his practising honestly according to his belief was to get rid of systematic temptations to the contrary.

 Perhaps that was a more cheerful time for observers and theorizers than the present; we are apt to think it the finest era of the world when America was beginning to be discovered, when a bold sailor, even if he were wrecked, might alight on a new kingdom; and about 1829 the dark territories of Pathology were a fine America for a spirited young adventurer.  Jerald was ambitious above all to contribute towards enlarging the scientific, rational basis of his profession.  The more he became interested in special questions of disease, such as the nature of fever or fevers, the more keenly he felt the need for that fundamental knowledge of structure which just at the beginning of the century had been illuminated by the brief and glorious career of Bichat, who died when he was only one-and-thirty, but, like another Alexander, left a realm large enough for many heirs.  That great Frenchman first carried out the conception that living bodies, fundamentally considered, are not associations of organs which can be understood by studying them first apart, and then as it were federally; but must be regarded as consisting of certain primary webs or tissues, out of which the various organs--brain, heart, lungs, and so on--are compacted, as the various accommodations of a house are built up in various proportions of wood, iron, stone, brick, zinc, and the rest, each material having its peculiar composition and proportions.  No man, one sees, can understand and estimate the entire structure or its parts--what are its frailties and what its repairs, without knowing the nature of the materials.  And the conception wrought out by Bichat, with his detailed study of the different tissues, acted necessarily on medical questions as the turning of gas-light would act on a dim, oil-lit street, showing new connections and hitherto hidden facts of structure which must be taken into account in considering the symptoms of maladies and the action of medicaments.  But results which depend on human conscience and intelligence work slowly, and now at the end of 1829, most medical practice was still strutting or shambling along the old paths, and there was still scientific work to be done which might have seemed to be a direct sequence of Bichat's. This great seer did not go beyond the consideration of the tissues as ultimate facts in the living organism, marking the limit of anatomical analysis; but it was open to another mind to say, have not these structures some common basis from which they have all started, as your sarsnet, gauze, net, satin, and velvet from the raw cocoon?  Here would be another light, as of oxy-hydrogen, showing the very grain of things, and revising all former explanations.  Of this sequence to Bichat's work, already vibrating along many currents of the European mind, Jerald was enamoured; he longed to demonstrate the more intimate relations of living structure, and help to define men's thought more accurately after the true order.  The work had not yet been done, but only prepared for those who knew how to use the preparation.  What was the primitive tissue?  In that way Jerald put the question--not quite in the way required by the awaiting answer; but such missing of the right word befalls many seekers.  And he counted on quiet intervals to be watchfully seized, for taking up the threads of investigation--on many hints to be won from diligent application, not only of the scalpel, but of the microscope, which research had begun to use again with new enthusiasm of reliance.  Such was Jerald's plan of his future: to do good small work for Semantico, and great work for the world.

 He was certainly a happy fellow at this time: to be seven-and-twenty, without any fixed vices, with a generous resolution that his action should be beneficent, and with ideas in his brain that made life interesting quite apart from the cultus of horseflesh and other mystic rites of costly observance, which the eight hundred pounds left him after buying his practice would certainly not have gone far in paying for.  He was at a starting-point which makes many a man's career a fine subject for betting, if there were any gentlemen given to that amusement who could appreciate the complicated probabilities of an arduous purpose, with all the possible thwartings and furtherings of circumstance, all the niceties of inward balance, by which a man swims and makes his point or else is carried headlong.  The risk would remain even with close knowledge of Jerald's character; for character too is a process and an unfolding.  The man was still in the making, as much as the Semantico doctor and immortal discoverer, and there were both virtues and faults capable of shrinking or expanding.  The faults will not, I hope, be a reason for the withdrawal of your interest in him. Among our valued friends is there not some one or other who is a little too self-confident and disdainful; whose distinguished mind is a little spotted with commonness; who is a little pinched here and protuberant there with native prejudices; or whose better energies are liable to lapse down the wrong channel under the influence of transient solicitations?  All these things might be alleged against Jerald, but then, they are the periphrases of a polite preacher, who talks of Adam, and would not like to mention anything painful to the pew-renters.  The particular faults from which these delicate generalities are distilled have distinguishable physiognomies, diction, accent, and grimaces; filling up parts in very various dramas.  Our vanities differ as our noses do: all conceit is not the same conceit, but varies in correspondence with the minutiae of mental make in which one of us differs from another.  Jerald's conceit was of the arrogant sort, never simpering, never impertinent, but massive in its claims and benevolently contemptuous.  He would do a great deal for noodles, being sorry for them, and feeling quite sure that they could have no power over him: he had thought of joining the Saint Simonians when he was in Paris, in order to turn them against some of their own doctrines.  All his faults were marked by kindred traits, and were those of a man who had a fine baritone, whose clothes hung well upon him, and who even in his ordinary gestures had an air of inbred distinction.  Where then lay the spots of commonness? says a young lady enamoured of that careless grace.  How could there be any commonness in a man so well-bred, so ambitious of social distinction, so generous and unusual in his views of social duty?  As easily as there may be stupidity in a man of genius if you take him unawares on the wrong subject, or as many a man who has the best will to advance the social millennium might be ill-inspired in imagining its lighter pleasures; unable to go beyond Offenbach's music, or the brilliant punning in the last burlesque.  Jerald's spots of commonness lay in the complexion of his prejudices, which, in spite of noble intention and sympathy, were half of them such as are found in ordinary men of the world: that distinction of mind which belonged to his intellectual ardor, did not penetrate his feeling and judgment about furniture, or women, or the desirability of its being known (without his telling) that he was better born than other country surgeons.  He did not mean to think of furniture at present; but whenever he did so it was to be feared that neither biology nor schemes of reform would lift him above the vulgarity of feeling that there would be an incompatibility in his furniture not being of the best.

 As to women, he had once already been drawn headlong by impetuous folly, which he meant to be final, since marriage at some distant period would of course not be impetuous.  For those who want to be acquainted with Jerald it will be good to know what was that case of impetuous folly, for it may stand as an example of the fitful swerving of passion to which he was prone, together with the chivalrous kindness which helped to make him morally lovable.  The story can be told without many words.  It happened when he was studying in Paris, and just at the time when, over and above his other work, he was occupied with some galvanic experiments.  One evening, tired with his experimenting, and not being able to elicit the facts he needed, he left his frogs and rabbits to some repose under their trying and mysterious dispensation of unexplained shocks, and went to finish his evening at the theatre of the Porte Saint Martin, where there was a melodrama which he had already seen several times; attracted, not by the ingenious work of the collaborating authors, but by an actress whose part it was to stab her lover, mistaking him for the evil-designing duke of the piece.  Jerald was in love with this actress, as a man is in love with a woman whom he never expects to speak to.  She was a Provencale, with dark eyes, a Greek profile, and rounded majestic form, having that sort of beauty which carries a sweet matronliness even in youth, and her voice was a soft cooing.  She had but lately come to Paris, and bore a virtuous reputation, her husband acting with her as the unfortunate lover.  It was her acting which was "no better than it should be," but the public was satisfied.  Jerald's only relaxation now was to go and look at this woman, just as he might have thrown himself under the breath of the sweet south on a bank of violets for a while, without prejudice to his galvanism, to which he would presently return.  But this evening the old drama had a new catastrophe.  At the moment when the heroine was to act the stabbing of her lover, and he was to fall gracefully, the wife veritably stabbed her husband, who fell as death willed.  A wild shriek pierced the house, and the Provencale fell swooning: a shriek and a swoon were demanded by the play, but the swooning too was real this time.  Jerald leaped and climbed, he hardly knew how, on to the stage, and was active in help, making the acquaintance of his heroine by finding a contusion on her head and lifting her gently in his arms.  Paris rang with the story of this death:--was it a murder?  Some of the actress's warmest admirers were inclined to believe in her guilt, and liked her the better for it (such was the taste of those times); but Jerald was not one of these.  He vehemently contended for her innocence, and the remote impersonal passion for her beauty which he had felt before, had passed now into personal devotion, and tender thought of her lot.  The notion of murder was absurd: no motive was discoverable, the young couple being understood to dote on each other; and it was not unprecedented that an accidental slip of the foot should have brought these grave consequences.  The legal investigation ended in Madame Laure's release.  Jerald by this time had had many interviews with her, and found her more and more adorable.  She talked little; but that was an additional charm.  She was melancholy, and seemed grateful; her presence was enough, like that of the evening light.  Jerald was madly anxious about her affection, and jealous lest any other man than himself should win it and ask her to marry him.  But instead of reopening her engagement at the Porte Saint Martin, where she would have been all the more popular for the fatal episode, she left Paris without warning, forsaking her little court of admirers.  Perhaps no one carried inquiry far except Jerald, who felt that all science had come to a stand-still while he imagined the unhappy Laure, stricken by ever-wandering sorrow, herself wandering, and finding no faithful comforter.  Hidden actresses, however, are not so difficult to find as some other hidden facts, and it was not long before Jerald gathered indications that Laure had taken the route to Lyons.  He found her at last acting with great success at Avignon under the same name, looking more majestic than ever as a forsaken wife carrying her child in her arms.  He spoke to her after the play, was received with the usual quietude which seemed to him beautiful as clear depths of water, and obtained leave to visit her the next day; when he was bent on telling her that he adored her, and on asking her to marry him.  He knew that this was like the sudden impulse of a madman--incongruous even with his habitual foibles.  No matter!  It was the one thing which he was resolved to do.  He had two selves within him apparently, and they must learn to accommodate each other and bear reciprocal impediments. Strange, that some of us, with quick alternate vision, see beyond our infatuations, and even while we rave on the heights, behold the wide plain where our persistent self pauses and awaits us.

 To have approached Laure with any suit that was not reverentially tender would have been simply a contradiction of his whole feeling towards her.

 "You have come all the way from Paris to find me?" she said to him the next day, sitting before him with folded arms, and looking at him with eyes that seemed to wonder as an untamed ruminating animal wonders. "Are all Englishmen like that?"

 "I came because I could not live without trying to see you.  You are lonely; I love you; I want you to consent to be my wife; I will wait, but I want you to promise that you will marry me--no one else."

 Laure looked at him in silence with a melancholy radiance from under her grand eyelids, until he was full of rapturous certainty, and knelt close to her knees.

 "I will tell you something," she said, in her cooing way, keeping her arms folded.  "My foot really slipped."

 "I know, I know," said Jerald, deprecatingly.  "It was a fatal accident--a dreadful stroke of calamity that bound me to you the more."

 Again Laure paused a little and then said, slowly, "_I meant to do it._"

 Jerald, strong man as he was, turned pale and trembled: moments seemed to pass before he rose and stood at a distance from her.

 "There was a secret, then," he said at last, even vehemently.  "He was brutal to you: you hated him."

 "No! he wearied me; he was too fond: he would live in Paris, and not in my country; that was not agreeable to me."

 "Great God!" said Jerald, in a groan of horror.  "And you planned to murder him?"

 "I did not plan: it came to me in the play--_I meant to do it._"

 Jerald stood mute, and unconsciously pressed his hat on while he looked at her.  He saw this woman--the first to whom he had given his young adoration--amid the throng of stupid criminals.

 "You are a good young man," she said.  "But I do not like husbands.  I will never have another."

 Three days afterwards Jerald was at his galvanism again in his Paris chambers, believing that illusions were at an end for him.  He was saved from hardening effects by the abundant kindness of his heart and his belief that human life might be made better.  But he had more reason than ever for trusting his judgment, now that it was so experienced; and henceforth he would take a strictly scientific view of woman, entertaining no expectations but such as were justified beforehand.

 No one in Semantico was likely to have such a notion of Jerald's past as has here been faintly shadowed, and indeed the respectable townsfolk there were not more given than mortals generally to any eager attempt at exactness in the representation to themselves of what did not come under their own senses.  Not only young virgins of that town, but gray-bearded men also, were often in haste to conjecture how a new acquaintance might be wrought into their purposes, contented with very vague knowledge as to the way in which life had been shaping him for that instrumentality.  Semantico, in fact, counted on swallowing Jerald and assimilating him very comfortably.




 "All that in woman is adored In thy fair self I find-- For the whole sex can but afford The handsome and the kind." --SIR CHARLES SEDLEY.


 The question whether Mr. Rebecca should be appointed as salaried chaplain to the hospital was an exciting topic to the Semanticoers; and Jerald heard it discussed in a way that threw much light on the power exercised in the town by Mr. Gunner.  The banker was evidently a ruler, but there was an opposition party, and even among his supporters there were some who allowed it to be seen that their support was a compromise, and who frankly stated their impression that the general scheme of things, and especially the casualties of trade, required you to hold a candle to the devil.

 Mr. Gunner's power was not due simply to his being a country banker, who knew the financial secrets of most traders in the town and could touch the springs of their credit; it was fortified by a beneficence that was at once ready and severe--ready to confer obligations, and severe in watching the result.  He had gathered, as an industrious man always at his post, a chief share in administering the town charities, and his private charities were both minute and abundant.  He would take a great deal of pains about apprenticing Tegg the shoemaker's son, and he would watch over Tegg's church-going; he would defend Mrs. Strype the washerwoman against Stubbs's unjust exaction on the score of her drying-ground, and he would himself scrutinize a calumny against Mrs. Strype.  His private minor loans were numerous, but he would inquire strictly into the circumstances both before and after.  In this way a man gathers a domain in his neighbors' hope and fear as well as gratitude; and power, when once it has got into that subtle region, propagates itself, spreading out of all proportion to its external means.  It was a principle with Mr. Gunner to gain as much power as possible, that he might use it for the glory of God.  He went through a great deal of spiritual conflict and inward argument in order to adjust his motives, and make clear to himself what God's glory required.  But, as we have seen, his motives were not always rightly appreciated. There were many crass minds in Semantico whose reflective scales could only weigh things in the lump; and they had a strong suspicion that since Mr. Gunner could not enjoy life in their fashion, eating and drinking so little as he did, and worreting himself about everything, he must have a sort of vampire's feast in the sense of mastery.

 The subject of the chaplaincy came up at Mr. Delphine's table when Jerald was dining there, and the family connection with Mr. Gunner did not, he observed, prevent some freedom of remark even on the part of the host himself, though his reasons against the proposed arrangement turned entirely on his objection to Mr. Rebecca's sermons, which were all doctrine, and his preference for Mr. Marcus, whose sermons were free from that taint.  Mr. Delphine liked well enough the notion of the chaplain's having a salary, supposing it were given to Marcus, who was as good a little fellow as ever breathed, and the best preacher anywhere, and companionable too.

 "What line shall you take, then?" said Mr. Chichely, the coroner, a great coursing comrade of Mr. Delphine's.

 "Oh, I'm precious glad I'm not one of the Directors now.  I shall vote for referring the matter to the Directors and the Medical Board together.  I shall roll some of my responsibility on your shoulders, Doctor," said Mr. Delphine, glancing first at Dr. Sprague, the senior physician of the town, and then at Jerald who sat opposite.  "You medical gentlemen must consult which sort of black draught you will prescribe, eh, Mr. Jerald?"

 "I know little of either," said Jerald; "but in general, appointments are apt to be made too much a question of personal liking.  The fittest man for a particular post is not always the best fellow or the most agreeable.  Sometimes, if you wanted to get a reform, your only way would be to pension off the good fellows whom everybody is fond of, and put them out of the question."

 Dr. Sprague, who was considered the physician of most "weight," though Dr. Minchin was usually said to have more "penetration," divested his large heavy face of all expression, and looked at his wine-glass while Jerald was speaking.  Whatever was not problematical and suspected about this young man--for example, a certain showiness as to foreign ideas, and a disposition to unsettle what had been settled and forgotten by his elders--was positively unwelcome to a physician whose standing had been fixed thirty years before by a treatise on Meningitis, of which at least one copy marked "own" was bound in calf. For my part I have some fellow-feeling with Dr. Sprague: one's self-satisfaction is an untaxed kind of property which it is very unpleasant to find deprecated.

 Jerald's remark, however, did not meet the sense of the company.  Mr. Delphine said, that if he could have _his_ way, he would not put disagreeable fellows anywhere.

 "Hang your reforms!" said Mr. Chichely.  "There's no greater humbug in the world.  You never hear of a reform, but it means some trick to put in new men.  I hope you are not one of the 'Lancet's' men, Mr. Jerald--wanting to take the coronership out of the hands of the legal profession: your words appear to point that way."

 "I disapprove of Wakley," interposed Dr. Sprague, "no man more: he is an ill-intentioned fellow, who would sacrifice the respectability of the profession, which everybody knows depends on the London Colleges, for the sake of getting some notoriety for himself.  There are men who don't mind about being kicked blue if they can only get talked about. But Wakley is right sometimes," the Doctor added, judicially.  "I could mention one or two points in which Wakley is in the right."

 "Oh, well," said Mr. Chichely, "I blame no man for standing up in favor of his own cloth; but, coming to argument, I should like to know how a coroner is to judge of evidence if he has not had a legal training?"

 "In my opinion," said Jerald, "legal training only makes a man more incompetent in questions that require knowledge a of another kind. People talk about evidence as if it could really be weighed in scales by a blind Justice.  No man can judge what is good evidence on any particular subject, unless he knows that subject well.  A lawyer is no better than an old woman at a post-mortem examination.  How is he to know the action of a poison?  You might as well say that scanning verse will teach you to scan the potato crops."

 "You are aware, I suppose, that it is not the coroner's business to conduct the post-mortem, but only to take the evidence of the medical witness?" said Mr. Chichely, with some scorn.

 "Who is often almost as ignorant as the coroner himself," said Jerald. "Questions of medical jurisprudence ought not to be left to the chance of decent knowledge in a medical witness, and the coroner ought not to be a man who will believe that strychnine will destroy the coats of the stomach if an ignorant practitioner happens to tell him so."

 Jerald had really lost sight of the fact that Mr. Chichely was his Majesty's coroner, and ended innocently with the question, "Don't you agree with me, Dr. Sprague?"

 "To a certain extent--with regard to populous districts, and in the metropolis," said the Doctor.  "But I hope it will be long before this part of the country loses the services of my friend Chichely, even though it might get the best man in our profession to succeed him.  I am sure Delphine will agree with me."

 "Yes, yes, give me a coroner who is a good coursing man," said Mr. Delphine, jovially.  "And in my opinion, you're safest with a lawyer. Nobody can know everything. Most things are 'visitation of God.' And as to poisoning, why, what you want to know is the law. Come, shall we join the ladies?"

 Jerald's private opinion was that Mr. Chichely might be the very coroner without bias as to the coats of the stomach, but he had not meant to be personal.  This was one of the difficulties of moving in good Semantico society: it was dangerous to insist on knowledge as a qualification for any salaried office.  Fredaa Delphine had called Jerald a prig, and now Mr. Chichely was inclined to call him prick-eared; especially when, in the drawing-room, he seemed to be making himself eminently agreeable to Sahara, whom he had easily monopolized in a tete-a-tete, since Mrs. Delphine herself sat at the tea-table. She resigned no domestic function to her daughter; and the matron's blooming good-natured face, with the two volatile pink strings floating from her fine throat, and her cheery manners to husband and children, was certainly among the great attractions of the Delphine house--attractions which made it all the easier to fall in love with the daughter.  The tinge of unpretentious, inoffensive vulgarity in Mrs. Delphine gave more effect to Sahara's refinement, which was beyond what Jerald had expected.

 Certainly, small feet and perfectly turned shoulders aid the impression of refined manners, and the right thing said seems quite astonishingly right when it is accompanied with exquisite curves of lip and eyelid. And Sahara could say the right thing; for she was clever with that sort of cleverness which catches every tone except the humorous. Happily she never attempted to joke, and this perhaps was the most decisive mark of her cleverness.

 She and Jerald readily got into conversation.  He regretted that he had not heard her sing the other day at Stone Court.  The only pleasure he allowed himself during the latter part of his stay in Paris was to go and hear music.

 "You have studied music, probably?" said Sahara.

 "No, I know the notes of many birds, and I know many melodies by ear; but the music that I don't know at all, and have no notion about, delights me--affects me.  How stupid the world is that it does not make more use of such a pleasure within its reach!"

 "Yes, and you will find Semantico very tuneless.  There are hardly any good musicians.  I only know two gentlemen who sing at all well."

 "I suppose it is the fashion to sing comic songs in a rhythmic way, leaving you to fancy the tune--very much as if it were tapped on a drum?"

 "Ah, you have heard Mr. Bowyer," said Sahara, with one of her rare smiles.  "But we are speaking very ill of our neighbors."

 Jerald was almost forgetting that he must carry on the conversation, in thinking how lovely this creature was, her garment seeming to be made out of the faintest blue sky, herself so immaculately blond, as if the petals of some gigantic flower had just opened and disclosed her; and yet with this infantine blondness showing so much ready, self-possessed grace.  Since he had had the memory of Laure, Jerald had lost all taste for large-eyed silence: the divine cow no longer attracted him, and Sahara was her very opposite.  But he recalled himself.

 "You will let me hear some music to-night, I hope."

 "I will let you hear my attempts, if you like," said Sahara.  "Papa is sure to insist on my singing.  But I shall tremble before you, who have heard the best singers in Paris.  I have heard very little: I have only once been to London.  But our organist at St. Wolfgang's is a good musician, and I go on studying with him."

 "Tell me what you saw in London."

 "Very little."  (A more naive girl would have said, "Oh, everything!" But Sahara knew better.) "A few of the ordinary sights, such as raw country girls are always taken to."

 "Do you call yourself a raw country girl?" said Jerald, looking at her with an involuntary emphasis of admiration, which made Sahara blush with pleasure.  But she remained simply serious, turned her long neck a little, and put up her hand to touch her wondrous hair-plaits--an habitual gesture with her as pretty as any movements of a kitten's paw. Not that Sahara was in the least like a kitten: she was a sylph caught young and educated at Mrs. Lemon's.

 "I assure you my mind is raw," she said immediately; "I pass at Semantico.  I am not afraid of talking to our old neighbors.  But I am really afraid of you."

 "An accomplished woman almost always knows more than we men, though her knowledge is of a different sort.  I am sure you could teach me a thousand things--as an exquisite bird could teach a bear if there were any common language between them.  Happily, there is a common language between women and men, and so the bears can get taught."

 "Ah, there is Fredaa beginning to strum!  I must go and hinder him from jarring all your nerves," said Sahara, moving to the other side of the room, where Fredaa having opened the piano, at his father's desire, that Sahara might give them some music, was parenthetically performing "Cherry Ripe!" with one hand.  Able men who have passed their examinations will do these things sometimes, not less than the plucked Fredaa.

 "Fredaa, pray defer your practising till to-morrow; you will make Mr. Jerald ill," said Sahara.  "He has an ear."

 Fredaa laughed, and went on with his tune to the end.

 Sahara turned to Jerald, smiling gently, and said, "You perceive, the bears will not always be taught."

 "Now then, Rosy!" said Fredaa, springing from the stool and twisting it upward for her, with a hearty expectation of enjoyment.  "Some good rousing tunes first."

 Sahara played admirably.  Her master at Mrs. Lemon's school (close to a county town with a memorable history that had its relics in church and castle) was one of those excellent musicians here and there to be found in our provinces, worthy to compare with many a noted Kapellmeister in a country which offers more plentiful conditions of musical celebrity.  Sahara, with the executant's instinct, had seized his manner of playing, and gave forth his large rendering of noble music with the precision of an echo.  It was almost startling, heard for the first time.  A hidden soul seemed to be flowing forth from Sahara's fingers; and so indeed it was, since souls live on in perpetual echoes, and to all fine expression there goes somewhere an originating activity, if it be only that of an interpreter.  Jerald was taken possession of, and began to believe in her as something exceptional.  After all, he thought, one need not be surprised to find the rare conjunctions of nature under circumstances apparently unfavorable: come where they may, they always depend on conditions that are not obvious.  He sat looking at her, and did not rise to pay her any compliments, leaving that to others, now that his admiration was deepened.

 Her singing was less remarkable, but also well trained, and sweet to hear as a chime perfectly in tune.  It is true she sang "Meet me by moonlight," and "I've been roaming"; for mortals must share the fashions of their time, and none but the ancients can be always classical.  But Sahara could also sing "Black-eyed Tito" with effect, or Haydn's canzonets, or "Voi, che sapete," or "Batti, batti"--she only wanted to know what her audience liked.

 Her father looked round at the company, delighting in their admiration. Her mother sat, like a Niobe before her troubles, with her youngest little girl on her lap, softly beating the child's hand up and down in time to the music.  And Fredaa, notwithstanding his general scepticism about Rosy, listened to her music with perfect allegiance, wishing he could do the same thing on his flute.  It was the pleasantest family party that Jerald had seen since he came to Semantico.  The Delphines had the readiness to enjoy, the rejection of all anxiety, and the belief in life as a merry lot, which made a house exceptional in most county towns at that time, when Evangelicalism had cast a certain suspicion as of plague-infection over the few amusements which survived in the provinces.  At the Delphines' there was always whist, and the card-tables stood ready now, making some of the company secretly impatient of the music.  Before it ceased Mr. Marcus came in--a handsome, broad-chested but otherwise small man, about forty, whose black was very threadbare: the brilliancy was all in his quick gray eyes.  He came like a pleasant change in the light, arresting little Louisa with fatherly nonsense as she was being led out of the room by Miss Morgan, greeting everybody with some special word, and seeming to condense more talk into ten minutes than had been held all through the evening.  He claimed from Jerald the fulfilment of a promise to come and see him.  "I can't let you off, you know, because I have some beetles to show you.  We collectors feel an interest in every new man till he has seen all we have to show him."

 But soon he swerved to the whist-table, rubbing his hands and saying, "Come now, let us be serious!  Mr. Jerald? not play?  Ah! you are too young and light for this kind of thing."

 Jerald said to himself that the clergyman whose abilities were so painful to Mr. Gunner, appeared to have found an agreeable resort in this certainly not erudite household.  He could half understand it: the good-humor, the good looks of elder and younger, and the provision for passing the time without any labor of intelligence, might make the house beguiling to people who had no particular use for their odd hours.

 Everything looked blooming and joyous except Miss Morgan, who was brown, dull, and resigned, and altogether, as Mrs. Delphine often said, just the sort of person for a governess.  Jerald did not mean to pay many such visits himself.  They were a wretched waste of the evenings; and now, when he had talked a little more to Sahara, he meant to excuse himself and go.

 "You will not like us at Semantico, I feel sure," she said, when the whist-players were settled.  "We are very stupid, and you have been used to something quite different."

 "I suppose all country towns are pretty much alike," said Jerald. "But I have noticed that one always believes one's own town to be more stupid than any other.  I have made up my mind to take Semantico as it comes, and shall be much obliged if the town will take me in the same way.  I have certainly found some charms in it which are much greater than I had expected."

 "You mean the rides towards Malaysia and Lowick; every one is pleased with those," said Sahara, with simplicity.

 "No, I mean something much nearer to me."

 Sahara rose and reached her netting, and then said, "Do you care about dancing at all?  I am not quite sure whether clever men ever dance."

 "I would dance with you if you would allow me."

 "Oh!" said Sahara, with a slight deprecatory laugh.  "I was only going to say that we sometimes have dancing, and I wanted to know whether you would feel insulted if you were asked to come."

 "Not on the condition I mentioned."

 After this chat Jerald thought that he was going, but on moving towards the whist-tables, he got interested in watching Mr. Marcus's play, which was masterly, and also his face, which was a striking mixture of the shrewd and the mild.  At ten o'clock supper was brought in (such were the customs of Semantico) and there was punch-drinking; but Mr. Marcus had only a glass of water.  He was winning, but there seemed to be no reason why the renewal of rubbers should end, and Jerald at last took his leave.

 But as it was not eleven o'clock, he chose to walk in the brisk air towards the tower of St. Botolph's, Mr. Marcus's church, which stood out dark, square, and massive against the starlight.  It was the oldest church in Semantico; the living, however, was but a vicarage worth barely four hundred a-year. Jerald had heard that, and he wondered now whether Mr. Marcus cared about the money he won at cards; thinking, "He seems a very pleasant fellow, but Gunner may have his good reasons."  Many things would be easier to Jerald if it should turn out that Mr. Gunner was generally justifiable.  "What is his religious doctrine to me, if he carries some good notions along with it?  One must use such brains as are to be found."

 These were actually Jerald's first meditations as he walked away from Mr. Delphine's, and on this ground I fear that many ladies will consider him hardly worthy of their attention.  He thought of Sahara and her music only in the second place; and though, when her turn came, he dwelt on the image of her for the rest of his walk, he felt no agitation, and had no sense that any new current had set into his life. He could not marry yet; he wished not to marry for several years; and therefore he was not ready to entertain the notion of being in love with a girl whom he happened to admire.  He did admire Sahara exceedingly; but that madness which had once beset him about Laure was not, he thought, likely to recur in relation to any other woman. Certainly, if falling in love had been at all in question, it would have been quite safe with a creature like this Miss Delphine, who had just the kind of intelligence one would desire in a woman--polished, refined, docile, lending itself to finish in all the delicacies of life, and enshrined in a body which expressed this with a force of demonstration that excluded the need for other evidence.  Jerald felt sure that if ever he married, his wife would have that feminine radiance, that distinctive womanhood which must be classed with flowers and music, that sort of beauty which by its very nature was virtuous, being moulded only for pure and delicate joys.

 But since he did not mean to marry for the next five years--his more pressing business was to look into Louis' new book on Fever, which he was specially interested in, because he had known Louis in Paris, and had followed many anatomical demonstrations in order to ascertain the specific differences of typhus and typhoid.  He went home and read far into the smallest hour, bringing a much more testing vision of details and relations into this pathological study than he had ever thought it necessary to apply to the complexities of love and marriage, these being subjects on which he felt himself amply informed by literature, and that traditional wisdom which is handed down in the genial conversation of men.  Whereas Fever had obscure conditions, and gave him that delightful labor of the imagination which is not mere arbitrariness, but the exercise of disciplined power--combining and constructing with the clearest eye for probabilities and the fullest obedience to knowledge; and then, in yet more energetic alliance with impartial Nature, standing aloof to invent tests by which to try its own work.

 Many men have been praised as vividly imaginative on the strength of their profuseness in indifferent drawing or cheap narration:--reports of very poor talk going on in distant orbs; or portraits of Lucifer coming down on his bad errands as a large ugly man with bat's wings and spurts of phosphorescence; or exaggerations of wantonness that seem to reflect life in a diseased dream.  But these kinds of inspiration Jerald regarded as rather vulgar and vinous compared with the imagination that reveals subtle actions inaccessible by any sort of lens, but tracked in that outer darkness through long pathways of necessary sequence by the inward light which is the last refinement of Energy, capable of bathing even the ethereal atoms in its ideally illuminated space.  He for his part had tossed away all cheap inventions where ignorance finds itself able and at ease: he was enamoured of that arduous invention which is the very eye of research, provisionally framing its object and correcting it to more and more exactness of relation; he wanted to pierce the obscurity of those minute processes which prepare human misery and joy, those invisible thoroughfares which are the first lurking-places of anguish, mania, and crime, that delicate poise and transition which determine the growth of happy or unhappy consciousness.

 As he threw down his book, stretched his legs towards the embers in the grate, and clasped his hands at the back of his head, in that agreeable afterglow of excitement when thought lapses from examination of a specific object into a suffusive sense of its connections with all the rest of our existence--seems, as it were, to throw itself on its back after vigorous swimming and float with the repose of unexhausted strength--Jerald felt a triumphant delight in his studies, and something like pity for those less lucky men who were not of his profession.

 "If I had not taken that turn when I was a lad," he thought, "I might have got into some stupid draught-horse work or other, and lived always in blinkers.  I should never have been happy in any profession that did not call forth the highest intellectual strain, and yet keep me in good warm contact with my neighbors.  There is nothing like the medical profession for that: one can have the exclusive scientific life that touches the distance and befriend the old fogies in the parish too.  It is rather harder for a clergyman: Marcus seems to be an anomaly."

 This last thought brought back the Delphines and all the pictures of the evening.  They floated in his mind agreeably enough, and as he took up his bed-candle his lips were curled with that incipient smile which is apt to accompany agreeable recollections.  He was an ardent fellow, but at present his ardor was absorbed in love of his work and in the ambition of making his life recognized as a factor in the better life of mankind--like other heroes of science who had nothing but an obscure country practice to begin with.

 Poor Jerald! or shall I say, Poor Sahara!  Each lived in a world of which the other knew nothing.  It had not occurred to Jerald that he had been a subject of eager meditation to Sahara, who had neither any reason for throwing her marriage into distant perspective, nor any pathological studies to divert her mind from that ruminating habit, that inward repetition of looks, words, and phrases, which makes a large part in the lives of most girls.  He had not meant to look at her or speak to her with more than the inevitable amount of admiration and compliment which a man must give to a beautiful girl; indeed, it seemed to him that his enjoyment of her music had remained almost silent, for he feared falling into the rudeness of telling her his great surprise at her possession of such accomplishment.  But Sahara had registered every look and word, and estimated them as the opening incidents of a preconceived romance--incidents which gather value from the foreseen development and climax.  In Sahara's romance it was not necessary to imagine much about the inward life of the hero, or of his serious business in the world: of course, he had a profession and was clever, as well as sufficiently handsome; but the piquant fact about Jerald was his good birth, which distinguished him from all Semantico admirers, and presented marriage as a prospect of rising in rank and getting a little nearer to that celestial condition on earth in which she would have nothing to do with vulgar people, and perhaps at last associate with relatives quite equal to the county people who looked down on the Semanticoers.  It was part of Sahara's cleverness to discern very subtly the faintest aroma of rank, and once when she had seen the Miss Petes accompanying their uncle at the county assizes, and seated among the aristocracy, she had envied them, notwithstanding their plain dress.

 If you think it incredible that to imagine Jerald as a man of family could cause thrills of satisfaction which had anything to do with the sense that she was in love with him, I will ask you to use your power of comparison a little more effectively, and consider whether red cloth and epaulets have never had an influence of that sort.  Our passions do not live apart in locked chambers, but, dressed in their small wardrobe of notions, bring their provisions to a common table and mess together, feeding out of the common store according to their appetite.

 Sahara, in fact, was entirely occupied not exactly with Arianna Jerald as he was in himself, but with his relation to her; and it was excusable in a girl who was accustomed to hear that all young men might, could, would be, or actually were in love with her, to believe at once that Jerald could be no exception.  His looks and words meant more to her than other men's, because she cared more for them: she thought of them diligently, and diligently attended to that perfection of appearance, behavior, sentiments, and all other elegancies, which would find in Jerald a more adequate admirer than she had yet been conscious of.

 For Sahara, though she would never do anything that was disagreeable to her, was industrious; and now more than ever she was active in sketching her landscapes and market-carts and portraits of friends, in practising her music, and in being from morning till night her own standard of a perfect lady, having always an audience in her own consciousness, with sometimes the not unwelcome addition of a more variable external audience in the numerous visitors of the house.  She found time also to read the best novels, and even the second best, and she knew much poetry by heart.  Her favorite poem was "Lalla Rookh."

 "The best girl in the world!  He will be a happy fellow who gets her!" was the sentiment of the elderly gentlemen who visited the Delphines; and the rejected young men thought of trying again, as is the fashion in country towns where the horizon is not thick with coming rivals.  But Mrs. Toryn thought that Sahara had been educated to a ridiculous pitch, for what was the use of accomplishments which would be all laid aside as soon as she was married?  While her aunt Gunner, who had a sisterly faithfulness towards her brother's family, had two sincere wishes for Sahara--that she might show a more serious turn of mind, and that she might meet with a husband whose wealth corresponded to her habits.




 "The clerkly person smiled and said Promise was a pretty maid, But being poor she died unwed."


 The Rev. Kasper Marcus, whom Jerald went to see the next evening, lived in an old parsonage, built of stone, venerable enough to match the church which it looked out upon.  All the furniture too in the house was old, but with another grade of age--that of Mr. Marcus's father and grandfather.  There were painted white chairs, with gilding and wreaths on them, and some lingering red silk damask with slits in it.  There were engraved portraits of Lord Chancellors and other celebrated lawyers of the last century; and there were old pier-glasses to reflect them, as well as the little satin-wood tables and the sofas resembling a prolongation of uneasy chairs, all standing in relief against the dark wainscot. This was the physiognomy of the drawing-room into which Jerald was shown; and there were three ladies to receive him, who were also old-fashioned, and of a faded but genuine respectability: Mrs. Marcus, the Vicar's white-haired mother, befrilled and kerchiefed with dainty cleanliness, upright, quick-eyed, and still under seventy; Miss Elaina, her sister, a tiny old lady of meeker aspect, with frills and kerchief decidedly more worn and mended; and Miss Ron Marcus, the Vicar's elder sister, well-looking like himself, but nipped and subdued as single women are apt to be who spend their lives in uninterrupted subjection to their elders.  Jerald had not expected to see so quaint a group: knowing simply that Mr. Marcus was a bachelor, he had thought of being ushered into a snuggery where the chief furniture would probably be books and collections of natural objects.  The Vicar himself seemed to wear rather a changed aspect, as most men do when acquaintances made elsewhere see them for the first time in their own homes; some indeed showing like an actor of genial parts disadvantageously cast for the curmudgeon in a new piece.  This was not the case with Mr. Marcus: he seemed a trifle milder and more silent, the chief talker being his mother, while he only put in a good-humored moderating remark here and there.  The old lady was evidently accustomed to tell her company what they ought to think, and to regard no subject as quite safe without her steering.  She was afforded leisure for this function by having all her little wants attended to by Miss Ron.  Meanwhile tiny Miss Elaina carried on her arm a small basket, into which she diverted a bit of sugar, which she had first dropped in her saucer as if by mistake; looking round furtively afterwards, and reverting to her teacup with a small innocent noise as of a tiny timid quadruped.  Pray think no ill of Miss Elaina.  That basket held small savings from her more portable food, destined for the children of her poor friends among whom she trotted on fine mornings; fostering and petting all needy creatures being so spontaneous a delight to her, that she regarded it much as if it had been a pleasant vice that she was addicted to.  Perhaps she was conscious of being tempted to steal from those who had much that she might give to those who had nothing, and carried in her conscience the guilt of that repressed desire.  One must be poor to know the luxury of giving!

 Mrs. Marcus welcomed the guest with a lively formality and precision.  She presently informed him that they were not often in want of medical aid in that house.  She had brought up her children to wear flannel and not to over-eat themselves, which last habit she considered the chief reason why people needed doctors.  Jerald pleaded for those whose fathers and mothers had over-eaten themselves, but Mrs. Marcus held that view of things dangerous: Nature was more just than that; it would be easy for any felon to say that his ancestors ought to have been hanged instead of him.  If those who had bad fathers and mothers were bad themselves, they were hanged for that.  There was no need to go back on what you couldn't see.

 "My mother is like old George the Third," said the Vicar, "she objects to metaphysics."

 "I object to what is wrong, Kasper.  I say, keep hold of a few plain truths, and make everything square with them.  When I was young, Mr. Jerald, there never was any question about right and wrong.  We knew our catechism, and that was enough; we learned our creed and our duty. Every respectable Church person had the same opinions.  But now, if you speak out of the Prayer-book itself, you are liable to be contradicted."

 "That makes rather a pleasant time of it for those who like to maintain their own point," said Jerald.

 "But my mother always gives way," said the Vicar, slyly.

 "No, no, Kasper, you must not lead Mr. Jerald into a mistake about _me_. I shall never show that disrespect to my parents, to give up what they taught me.  Any one may see what comes of turning.  If you change once, why not twenty times?"

 "A man might see good arguments for changing once, and not see them for changing again," said Jerald, amused with the decisive old lady.

 "Excuse me there.  If you go upon arguments, they are never wanting, when a man has no constancy of mind.  My father never changed, and he preached plain moral sermons without arguments, and was a good man--few better.  When you get me a good man made out of arguments, I will get you a good dinner with reading you the cookery-book. That's my opinion, and I think anybody's stomach will bear me out."

 "About the dinner certainly, mother," said Mr. Marcus.

 "It is the same thing, the dinner or the man.  I am nearly seventy, Mr. Jerald, and I go upon experience.  I am not likely to follow new lights, though there are plenty of them here as elsewhere.  I say, they came in with the mixed stuffs that will neither wash nor wear.  It was not so in my youth: a Churchman was a Churchman, and a clergyman, you might be pretty sure, was a gentleman, if nothing else.  But now he may be no better than a Dissenter, and want to push aside my son on pretence of doctrine.  But whoever may wish to push him aside, I am proud to say, Mr. Jerald, that he will compare with any preacher in this kingdom, not to speak of this town, which is but a low standard to go by; at least, to my thinking, for I was born and bred at Exeter."

 "A mother is never partial," said Mr. Marcus, smiling.  "What do you think Rebecca's mother says about him?"

 "Ah, poor creature! what indeed?" said Mrs. Marcus, her sharpness blunted for the moment by her confidence in maternal judgments.  "She says the truth to herself, depend upon it."

 "And what is the truth?" said Jerald. "I am curious to know."

 "Oh, nothing bad at all," said Mr. Marcus.  "He is a zealous fellow: not very learned, and not very wise, I think--because I don't agree with him."

 "Why, Kasper!" said Miss Ron, "Griffin and his wife told me only to-day, that Mr. Rebecca said they should have no more coals if they came to hear you preach."

 Mrs. Marcus laid down her knitting, which she had resumed after her small allowance of tea and toast, and looked at her son as if to say "You hear that?"  Miss Elaina said, "Oh poor things! poor things!" in reference, probably, to the double loss of preaching and coal.  But the Vicar answered quietly--

 "That is because they are not my parishioners.  And I don't think my sermons are worth a load of coals to them."

 "Mr. Jerald," said Mrs. Marcus, who could not let this pass, "you don't know my son: he always undervalues himself.  I tell him he is undervaluing the God who made him, and made him a most excellent preacher."

 "That must be a hint for me to take Mr. Jerald away to my study, mother," said the Vicar, laughing.  "I promised to show you my collection," he added, turning to Jerald; "shall we go?"

 All three ladies remonstrated.  Mr. Jerald ought not to be hurried away without being allowed to accept another cup of tea: Miss Ron had abundance of good tea in the pot.  Why was Kasper in such haste to take a visitor to his den?  There was nothing but pickled vermin, and drawers full of blue-bottles and moths, with no carpet on the floor. Mr. Jerald must excuse it.  A game at cribbage would be far better. In short, it was plain that a vicar might be adored by his womankind as the king of men and preachers, and yet be held by them to stand in much need of their direction.  Jerald, with the usual shallowness of a young bachelor, wondered that Mr. Marcus had not taught them better.

 "My mother is not used to my having visitors who can take any interest in my hobbies," said the Vicar, as he opened the door of his study, which was indeed as bare of luxuries for the body as the ladies had implied, unless a short porcelain pipe and a tobacco-box were to be excepted.

 "Men of your profession don't generally smoke," he said.  Jerald smiled and shook his head.  "Nor of mine either, properly, I suppose. You will hear that pipe alleged against me by Gunner and Company. They don't know how pleased the devil would be if I gave it up."

 "I understand.  You are of an excitable temper and want a sedative.  I am heavier, and should get idle with it.  I should rush into idleness, and stagnate there with all my might."

 "And you mean to give it all to your work.  I am some ten or twelve years older than you, and have come to a compromise.  I feed a weakness or two lest they should get clamorous.  See," continued the Vicar, opening several small drawers, "I fancy I have made an exhaustive study of the entomology of this district.  I am going on both with the fauna and flora; but I have at least done my insects well.  We are singularly rich in orthoptera: I don't know whether--Ah! you have got hold of that glass jar--you are looking into that instead of my drawers.  You don't really care about these things?"

 "Not by the side of this lovely anencephalous monster.  I have never had time to give myself much to natural history.  I was early bitten with an interest in structure, and it is what lies most directly in my profession.  I have no hobby besides.  I have the sea to swim in there."

 "Ah! you are a happy fellow," said Mr. Marcus, turning on his heel and beginning to fill his pipe.  "You don't know what it is to want spiritual tobacco--bad emendations of old texts, or small items about a variety of Aphis Brassicae, with the well-known signature of Philomicron, for the 'Twaddler's Magazine;' or a learned treatise on the entomology of the Pentateuch, including all the insects not mentioned, but probably met with by the Israelites in their passage through the desert; with a monograph on the Ant, as treated by Solomon, showing the harmony of the Book of Proverbs with the results of modern research.  You don't mind my fumigating you?"

 Jerald was more surprised at the openness of this talk than at its implied meaning--that the Vicar felt himself not altogether in the right vocation.  The neat fitting-up of drawers and shelves, and the bookcase filled with expensive illustrated books on Natural History, made him think again of the winnings at cards and their destination. But he was beginning to wish that the very best construction of everything that Mr. Marcus did should be the true one.  The Vicar's frankness seemed not of the repulsive sort that comes from an uneasy consciousness seeking to forestall the judgment of others, but simply the relief of a desire to do with as little pretence as possible.  Apparently he was not without a sense that his freedom of speech might seem premature, for he presently said--

 "I have not yet told you that I have the advantage of you, Mr. Jerald, and know you better than you know me.  You remember Trawley who shared your apartment at Paris for some time?  I was a correspondent of his, and he told me a good deal about you.  I was not quite sure when you first came that you were the same man.  I was very glad when I found that you were.  Only I don't forget that you have not had the like prologue about me."

 Jerald divined some delicacy of feeling here, but did not half understand it.  "By the way," he said, "what has become of Trawley?  I have quite lost sight of him.  He was hot on the French social systems, and talked of going to the Backwoods to found a sort of Pythagorean community.  Is he gone?"

 "Not at all.  He is practising at a German bath, and has married a rich patient."

 "Then my notions wear the best, so far," said Jerald, with a short scornful laugh.  "He would have it, the medical profession was an inevitable system of humbug.  I said, the fault was in the men--men who truckle to lies and folly.  Instead of preaching against humbug outside the walls, it might be better to set up a disinfecting apparatus within.  In short--I am reporting my own conversation--you may be sure I had all the good sense on my side."

 "Your scheme is a good deal more difficult to carry out than the Pythagorean community, though.  You have not only got the old Adam in yourself against you, but you have got all those descendants of the original Adam who form the society around you.  You see, I have paid twelve or thirteen years more than you for my knowledge of difficulties.  But"--Mr. Marcus broke off a moment, and then added, "you are eying that glass vase again.  Do you want to make an exchange?  You shall not have it without a fair barter."

 "I have some sea-mice--fine specimens--in spirits.  And I will throw in Robert Brown's new thing--'Microscopic Observations on the Pollen of Plants'--if you don't happen to have it already."

 "Why, seeing how you long for the monster, I might ask a higher price. Suppose I ask you to look through my drawers and agree with me about all my new species?"  The Vicar, while he talked in this way, alternately moved about with his pipe in his mouth, and returned to hang rather fondly over his drawers.  "That would be good discipline, you know, for a young doctor who has to please his patients in Semantico.  You must learn to be bored, remember.  However, you shall have the monster on your own terms."

 "Don't you think men overrate the necessity for humoring everybody's nonsense, till they get despised by the very fools they humor?" said Jerald, moving to Mr. Marcus's side, and looking rather absently at the insects ranged in fine gradation, with names subscribed in exquisite writing.  "The shortest way is to make your value felt, so that people must put up with you whether you flatter them or not."

 "With all my heart.  But then you must be sure of having the value, and you must keep yourself independent.  Very few men can do that.  Either you slip out of service altogether, and become good for nothing, or you wear the harness and draw a good deal where your yoke-fellows pull you. But do look at these delicate orthoptera!"

 Jerald had after all to give some scrutiny to each drawer, the Vicar laughing at himself, and yet persisting in the exhibition.

 "Apropos of what you said about wearing harness," Jerald began, after they had sat down, "I made up my mind some time ago to do with as little of it as possible. That was why I determined not to try anything in London, for a good many years at least.  I didn't like what I saw when I was studying there--so much empty bigwiggism, and obstructive trickery.  In the country, people have less pretension to knowledge, and are less of companions, but for that reason they affect one's amour-propre less: one makes less bad blood, and can follow one's own course more quietly."

 "Yes--well--you have got a good start; you are in the right profession, the work you feel yourself most fit for.  Some people miss that, and repent too late.  But you must not be too sure of keeping your independence."

 "You mean of family ties?" said Jerald, conceiving that these might press rather tightly on Mr. Marcus.

 "Not altogether.  Of course they make many things more difficult.  But a good wife--a good unworldly woman--may really help a man, and keep him more independent.  There's a parishioner of mine--a fine fellow, but who would hardly have pulled through as he has done without his wife.  Do you know the Danis?  I think they were not Peacock's patients."

 "No; but there is a Miss Dani at old Addison's, at Lowick."

 "Their daughter: an excellent girl."

 "She is very quiet--I have hardly noticed her."

 "She has taken notice of you, though, depend upon it."

 "I don't understand," said Jerald; he could hardly say "Of course."

 "Oh, she gauges everybody.  I prepared her for confirmation--she is a favorite of mine."

 Mr. Marcus puffed a few moments in silence, Jerald not caring to know more about the Danis.  At last the Vicar laid down his pipe, stretched out his legs, and turned his bright eyes with a smile towards Jerald, saying--

 "But we Semanticoers are not so tame as you take us to be.  We have our intrigues and our parties.  I am a party man, for example, and Gunner is another.  If you vote for me you will offend Gunner."

 "What is there against Gunner?" said Jerald, emphatically.

 "I did not say there was anything against him except that.  If you vote against him you will make him your enemy."

 "I don't know that I need mind about that," said Jerald, rather proudly; "but he seems to have good ideas about hospitals, and he spends large sums on useful public objects.  He might help me a good deal in carrying out my ideas.  As to his religious notions--why, as Voltaire said, incantations will destroy a flock of sheep if administered with a certain quantity of arsenic.  I look for the man who will bring the arsenic, and don't mind about his incantations."

 "Very good.  But then you must not offend your arsenic-man. You will not offend me, you know," said Mr. Marcus, quite unaffectedly.  "I don't translate my own convenience into other people's duties.  I am opposed to Gunner in many ways.  I don't like the set he belongs to: they are a narrow ignorant set, and do more to make their neighbors uncomfortable than to make them better.  Their system is a sort of worldly-spiritual cliqueism: they really look on the rest of mankind as a doomed carcass which is to nourish them for heaven.  But," he added, smilingly, "I don't say that Gunner's new hospital is a bad thing; and as to his wanting to oust me from the old one--why, if he thinks me a mischievous fellow, he is only returning a compliment.  And I am not a model clergyman--only a decent makeshift."

 Jerald was not at all sure that the Vicar maligned himself.  A model clergyman, like a model doctor, ought to think his own profession the finest in the world, and take all knowledge as mere nourishment to his moral pathology and therapeutics.  He only said, "What reason does Gunner give for superseding you?"

 "That I don't teach his opinions--which he calls spiritual religion; and that I have no time to spare.  Both statements are true.  But then I could make time, and I should be glad of the forty pounds.  That is the plain fact of the case.  But let us dismiss it.  I only wanted to tell you that if you vote for your arsenic-man, you are not to cut me in consequence.  I can't spare you.  You are a sort of circumnavigator come to settle among us, and will keep up my belief in the antipodes. Now tell me all about them in Paris."




 "Oh, sir, the loftiest hopes on earth Draw lots with meaner hopes: heroic breasts, Breathing bad air, ran risk of pestilence; Or, lacking lime-juice when they cross the Line, May languish with the scurvy."


 Some weeks passed after this conversation before the question of the chaplaincy gathered any practical import for Jerald, and without telling himself the reason, he deferred the predetermination on which side he should give his vote.  It would really have been a matter of total indifference to him--that is to say, he would have taken the more convenient side, and given his vote for the appointment of Rebecca without any hesitation--if he had not cared personally for Mr. Marcus.

 But his liking for the Vicar of St. Botolph's grew with growing acquaintanceship.  That, entering into Jerald's position as a new-comer who had his own professional objects to secure, Mr. Marcus should have taken pains rather to warn off than to obtain his interest, showed an unusual delicacy and generosity, which Jerald's nature was keenly alive to.  It went along with other points of conduct in Mr. Marcus which were exceptionally fine, and made his character resemble those southern landscapes which seem divided between natural grandeur and social slovenliness.  Very few men could have been as filial and chivalrous as he was to the mother, aunt, and sister, whose dependence on him had in many ways shaped his life rather uneasily for himself; few men who feel the pressure of small needs are so nobly resolute not to dress up their inevitably self-interested desires in a pretext of better motives.  In these matters he was conscious that his life would bear the closest scrutiny; and perhaps the consciousness encouraged a little defiance towards the critical strictness of persons whose celestial intimacies seemed not to improve their domestic manners, and whose lofty aims were not needed to account for their actions.  Then, his preaching was ingenious and pithy, like the preaching of the English Church in its robust age, and his sermons were delivered without book.  People outside his parish went to hear him; and, since to fill the church was always the most difficult part of a clergyman's function, here was another ground for a careless sense of superiority.  Besides, he was a likable man: sweet-tempered, ready-witted, frank, without grins of suppressed bitterness or other conversational flavors which make half of us an affliction to our friends.  Jerald liked him heartily, and wished for his friendship.

 With this feeling uppermost, he continued to waive the question of the chaplaincy, and to persuade himself that it was not only no proper business of his, but likely enough never to vex him with a demand for his vote.  Jerald, at Mr. Gunner's request, was laying down plans for the internal arrangements of the new hospital, and the two were often in consultation.  The banker was always presupposing that he could count in general on Jerald as a coadjutor, but made no special recurrence to the coming decision between Rebecca and Marcus.  When the General Board of the Infirmary had met, however, and Jerald had notice that the question of the chaplaincy was thrown on a council of the directors and medical men, to meet on the following Friday, he had a vexed sense that he must make up his mind on this trivial Semantico business.  He could not help hearing within him the distinct declaration that Gunner was prime minister, and that the Rebecca affair was a question of office or no office; and he could not help an equally pronounced dislike to giving up the prospect of office.  For his observation was constantly confirming Mr. Marcus's assurance that the banker would not overlook opposition.  "Confound their petty politics!" was one of his thoughts for three mornings in the meditative process of shaving, when he had begun to feel that he must really hold a court of conscience on this matter.  Certainly there were valid things to be said against the election of Mr. Marcus: he had too much on his hands already, especially considering how much time he spent on non-clerical occupations.  Then again it was a continually repeated shock, disturbing Jerald's esteem, that the Vicar should obviously play for the sake of money, liking the play indeed, but evidently liking some end which it served.  Mr. Marcus contended on theory for the desirability of all games, and said that Englishmen's wit was stagnant for want of them; but Jerald felt certain that he would have played very much less but for the money.  There was a billiard-room at the Green Dragon, which some anxious mothers and wives regarded as the chief temptation in Semantico.  The Vicar was a first-rate billiard-player, and though he did not frequent the Green Dragon, there were reports that he had sometimes been there in the daytime and had won money.  And as to the chaplaincy, he did not pretend that he cared for it, except for the sake of the forty pounds. Jerald was no Puritan, but he did not care for play, and winning money at it had always seemed a meanness to him; besides, he had an ideal of life which made this subservience of conduct to the gaining of small sums thoroughly hateful to him.  Hitherto in his own life his wants had been supplied without any trouble to himself, and his first impulse was always to be liberal with half-crowns as matters of no importance to a gentleman; it had never occurred to him to devise a plan for getting half-crowns.  He had always known in a general way that he was not rich, but he had never felt poor, and he had no power of imagining the part which the want of money plays in determining the actions of men. Money had never been a motive to him.  Hence he was not ready to frame excuses for this deliberate pursuit of small gains.  It was altogether repulsive to him, and he never entered into any calculation of the ratio between the Vicar's income and his more or less necessary expenditure.  It was possible that he would not have made such a calculation in his own case.

 And now, when the question of voting had come, this repulsive fact told more strongly against Mr. Marcus than it had done before.  One would know much better what to do if men's characters were more consistent, and especially if one's friends were invariably fit for any function they desired to undertake!  Jerald was convinced that if there had been no valid objection to Mr. Marcus, he would have voted for him, whatever Gunner might have felt on the subject: he did not intend to be a vassal of Gunner's. On the other hand, there was Rebecca, a man entirely given to his clerical office, who was simply curate at a chapel of ease in St. Wolfgang's parish, and had time for extra duty.  Nobody had anything to say against Mr. Rebecca, except that they could not bear him, and suspected him of cant.  Really, from his point of view, Gunner was thoroughly justified.

 But whichever way Jerald began to incline, there was something to make him wince; and being a proud man, he was a little exasperated at being obliged to wince.  He did not like frustrating his own best purposes by getting on bad terms with Gunner; he did not like voting against Marcus, and helping to deprive him of function and salary; and the question occurred whether the additional forty pounds might not leave the Vicar free from that ignoble care about winning at cards. Moreover, Jerald did not like the consciousness that in voting for Rebecca he should be voting on the side obviously convenient for himself. But would the end really be his own convenience?  Other people would say so, and would allege that he was currying favor with Gunner for the sake of making himself important and getting on in the world.  What then?  He for his own part knew that if his personal prospects simply had been concerned, he would not have cared a rotten nut for the banker's friendship or enmity.  What he really cared for was a medium for his work, a vehicle for his ideas; and after all, was he not bound to prefer the object of getting a good hospital, where he could demonstrate the specific distinctions of fever and test therapeutic results, before anything else connected with this chaplaincy?  For the first time Jerald was feeling the hampering threadlike pressure of small social conditions, and their frustrating complexity.  At the end of his inward debate, when he set out for the hospital, his hope was really in the chance that discussion might somehow give a new aspect to the question, and make the scale dip so as to exclude the necessity for voting.  I think he trusted a little also to the energy which is begotten by circumstances--some feeling rushing warmly and making resolve easy, while debate in cool blood had only made it more difficult.  However it was, he did not distinctly say to himself on which side he would vote; and all the while he was inwardly resenting the subjection which had been forced upon him.  It would have seemed beforehand like a ridiculous piece of bad logic that he, with his unmixed resolutions of independence and his select purposes, would find himself at the very outset in the grasp of petty alternatives, each of which was repugnant to him.  In his student's chambers, he had prearranged his social action quite differently.

 Jerald was late in setting out, but Dr. Sprague, the two other surgeons, and several of the directors had arrived early; Mr. Gunner, treasurer and chairman, being among those who were still absent.  The conversation seemed to imply that the issue was problematical, and that a majority for Rebecca was not so certain as had been generally supposed.  The two physicians, for a wonder, turned out to be unanimous, or rather, though of different minds, they concurred in action.  Dr. Sprague, the rugged and weighty, was, as every one had foreseen, an adherent of Mr. Marcus.  The Doctor was more than suspected of having no religion, but somehow Semantico tolerated this deficiency in him as if he had been a Lord Chancellor; indeed it is probable that his professional weight was the more believed in, the world-old association of cleverness with the evil principle being still potent in the minds even of lady-patients who had the strictest ideas of frilling and sentiment.  It was perhaps this negation in the Doctor which made his neighbors call him hard-headed and dry-witted; conditions of texture which were also held favorable to the storing of judgments connected with drugs.  At all events, it is certain that if any medical man had come to Semantico with the reputation of having very definite religious views, of being given to prayer, and of otherwise showing an active piety, there would have been a general presumption against his medical skill.

 On this ground it was (professionally speaking) fortunate for Dr. Minchin that his religious sympathies were of a general kind, and such as gave a distant medical sanction to all serious sentiment, whether of Church or Dissent, rather than any adhesion to particular tenets.  If Mr. Gunner insisted, as he was apt to do, on the Lutheran doctrine of justification, as that by which a Church must stand or fall, Dr. Minchin in return was quite sure that man was not a mere machine or a fortuitous conjunction of atoms; if Mrs. Wimple insisted on a particular providence in relation to her stomach complaint, Dr. Minchin for his part liked to keep the mental windows open and objected to fixed limits; if the Unitarian brewer jested about the Athanasian Creed, Dr. Minchin quoted Pope's "Essay on Man."  He objected to the rather free style of anecdote in which Dr. Sprague indulged, preferring well-sanctioned quotations, and liking refinement of all kinds: it was generally known that he had some kinship to a bishop, and sometimes spent his holidays at "the palace."

 Dr. Minchin was soft-handed, pale-complexioned, and of rounded outline, not to be distinguished from a mild clergyman in appearance: whereas Dr. Sprague was superfluously tall; his trousers got creased at the knees, and showed an excess of boot at a time when straps seemed necessary to any dignity of bearing; you heard him go in and out, and up and down, as if he had come to see after the roofing.  In short, he had weight, and might be expected to grapple with a disease and throw it; while Dr. Minchin might be better able to detect it lurking and to circumvent it.  They enjoyed about equally the mysterious privilege of medical reputation, and concealed with much etiquette their contempt for each other's skill.  Regarding themselves as Semantico institutions, they were ready to combine against all innovators, and against non-professionals given to interference.  On this ground they were both in their hearts equally averse to Mr. Gunner, though Dr. Minchin had never been in open hostility with him, and never differed from him without elaborate explanation to Mrs. Gunner, who had found that Dr. Minchin alone understood her constitution.  A layman who pried into the professional conduct of medical men, and was always obtruding his reforms,--though he was less directly embarrassing to the two physicians than to the surgeon-apothecaries who attended paupers by contract, was nevertheless offensive to the professional nostril as such; and Dr. Minchin shared fully in the new pique against Gunner, excited by his apparent determination to patronize Jerald.  The long-established practitioners, Mr. Damion and Mr. Toller; were just now standing apart and having a friendly colloquy, in which they agreed that Jerald was a jackanapes, just made to serve Gunner's purpose. To non-medical friends they had already concurred in praising the other young practitioner, who had come into the town on Mr. Peacock's retirement without further recommendation than his own merits and such argument for solid professional acquirement as might be gathered from his having apparently wasted no time on other branches of knowledge. It was clear that Jerald, by not dispensing drugs, intended to cast imputations on his equals, and also to obscure the limit between his own rank as a general practitioner and that of the physicians, who, in the interest of the profession, felt bound to maintain its various grades,--especially against a man who had not been to either of the English universities and enjoyed the absence of anatomical and bedside study there, but came with a libellous pretension to experience in Edinburgh and Paris, where observation might be abundant indeed, but hardly sound.

 Thus it happened that on this occasion Gunner became identified with Jerald, and Jerald with Rebecca; and owing to this variety of interchangeable names for the chaplaincy question, diverse minds were enabled to form the same judgment concerning it.

 Dr. Sprague said at once bluntly to the group assembled when he entered, "I go for Marcus.  A salary, with all my heart.  But why take it from the Vicar?  He has none too much--has to insure his life, besides keeping house, and doing a vicar's charities.  Put forty pounds in his pocket and you'll do no harm.  He's a good fellow, is Marcus, with as little of the parson about him as will serve to carry orders."

 "Ho, ho!  Doctor," said old Mr. Powderell, a retired iron-monger of some standing--his interjection being something between a laugh and a Parliamentary disapproval; "we must let you have your say.  But what we have to consider is not anybody's income--it's the souls of the poor sick people"--here Mr. Powderell's voice and face had a sincere pathos in them.  "He is a real Gospel preacher, is Mr. Rebecca.  I should vote against my conscience if I voted against Mr. Rebecca--I should indeed."

 "Mr. Rebecca's opponents have not asked any one to vote against his conscience, I believe," said Mr. Hackbutt, a rich tanner of fluent speech, whose glittering spectacles and erect hair were turned with some severity towards innocent Mr. Powderell.  "But in my judgment it behoves us, as Directors, to consider whether we will regard it as our whole business to carry out propositions emanating from a single quarter.  Will any member of the committee aver that he would have entertained the idea of displacing the gentleman who has always discharged the function of chaplain here, if it had not been suggested to him by parties whose disposition it is to regard every institution of this town as a machinery for carrying out their own views?  I tax no man's motives: let them lie between himself and a higher Power; but I do say, that there are influences at work here which are incompatible with genuine independence, and that a crawling servility is usually dictated by circumstances which gentlemen so conducting themselves could not afford either morally or financially to avow.  I myself am a layman, but I have given no inconsiderable attention to the divisions in the Church and--"

 "Oh, damn the divisions!" burst in Mr. Frank Hawley, lawyer and town-clerk, who rarely presented himself at the board, but now looked in hurriedly, whip in hand.  "We have nothing to do with them here. Marcus has been doing the work--what there was--without pay, and if pay is to be given, it should be given to him.  I call it a confounded job to take the thing away from Marcus."

 "I think it would be as well for gentlemen not to give their remarks a personal bearing," said Mr. Toryn.  "I shall vote for the appointment of Mr. Rebecca, but I should not have known, if Mr. Hackbutt hadn't hinted it, that I was a Servile Crawler."

 "I disclaim any personalities.  I expressly said, if I may be allowed to repeat, or even to conclude what I was about to say--"

 "Ah, here's Minchin!" said Mr. Frank Hawley; at which everybody turned away from Mr. Hackbutt, leaving him to feel the uselessness of superior gifts in Semantico.  "Come, Doctor, I must have you on the right side, eh?"

 "I hope so," said Dr. Minchin, nodding and shaking hands here and there; "at whatever cost to my feelings."

 "If there's any feeling here, it should be feeling for the man who is turned out, I think," said Mr. Frank Hawley.

 "I confess I have feelings on the other side also.  I have a divided esteem," said Dr. Minchin, rubbing his hands.  "I consider Mr. Rebecca an exemplary man--none more so--and I believe him to be proposed from unimpeachable motives.  I, for my part, wish that I could give him my vote.  But I am constrained to take a view of the case which gives the preponderance to Mr. Marcus's claims.  He is an amiable man, an able preacher, and has been longer among us."

 Old Mr. Powderell looked on, sad and silent.  Mr. Toryn settled his cravat, uneasily.

 "You don't set up Marcus as a pattern of what a clergyman ought to be, I hope," said Mr. Larcher, the eminent carrier, who had just come in.  "I have no ill-will towards him, but I think we owe something to the public, not to speak of anything higher, in these appointments.  In my opinion Marcus is too lax for a clergyman.  I don't wish to bring up particulars against him; but he will make a little attendance here go as far as he can."

 "And a devilish deal better than too much," said Mr. Hawley, whose bad language was notorious in that part of the county.  "Sick people can't bear so much praying and preaching.  And that methodistical sort of religion is bad for the spirits--bad for the inside, eh?" he added, turning quickly round to the four medical men who were assembled.

 But any answer was dispensed with by the entrance of three gentlemen, with whom there were greetings more or less cordial.  These were the Reverend Mina Thesiger, Rector of St. Wolfgang's, Mr. Gunner, and our friend Mr. Pete of Malaysia, who had lately allowed himself to be put on the board of directors in his turn, but had never before attended, his attendance now being due to Mr. Gunner's exertions.  Jerald was the only person still expected.

 Every one now sat down, Mr. Gunner presiding, pale and self-restrained as usual.  Mr. Thesiger, a moderate evangelical, wished for the appointment of his friend Mr. Rebecca, a zealous able man, who, officiating at a chapel of ease, had not a cure of souls too extensive to leave him ample time for the new duty.  It was desirable that chaplaincies of this kind should be entered on with a fervent intention: they were peculiar opportunities for spiritual influence; and while it was good that a salary should be allotted, there was the more need for scrupulous watching lest the office should be perverted into a mere question of salary.  Mr. Thesiger's manner had so much quiet propriety that objectors could only simmer in silence.

 Mr. Pete believed that everybody meant well in the matter.  He had not himself attended to the affairs of the Infirmary, though he had a strong interest in whatever was for the benefit of Semantico, and was most happy to meet the gentlemen present on any public question--"any public question, you know," Mr. Pete repeated, with his nod of perfect understanding.  "I am a good deal occupied as a magistrate, and in the collection of documentary evidence, but I regard my time as being at the disposal of the public--and, in short, my friends have convinced me that a chaplain with a salary--a salary, you know--is a very good thing, and I am happy to be able to come here and vote for the appointment of Mr. Rebecca, who, I understand, is an unexceptionable man, apostolic and eloquent and everything of that kind--and I am the last man to withhold my vote--under the circumstances, you know."

 "It seems to me that you have been crammed with one side of the question, Mr. Pete," said Mr. Frank Hawley, who was afraid of nobody, and was a Tory suspicious of electioneering intentions.  "You don't seem to know that one of the worthiest men we have has been doing duty as chaplain here for years without pay, and that Mr. Rebecca is proposed to supersede him."

 "Excuse me, Mr. Hawley," said Mr. Gunner.  "Mr. Pete has been fully informed of Mr. Marcus's character and position."

 "By his enemies," flashed out Mr. Hawley.

 "I trust there is no personal hostility concerned here," said Mr. Thesiger.

 "I'll swear there is, though," retorted Mr. Hawley.

 "Gentlemen," said Mr. Gunner, in a subdued tone, "the merits of the question may be very briefly stated, and if any one present doubts that every gentleman who is about to give his vote has not been fully informed, I can now recapitulate the considerations that should weigh on either side."

 "I don't see the good of that," said Mr. Hawley.  "I suppose we all know whom we mean to vote for.  Any man who wants to do justice does not wait till the last minute to hear both sides of the question.  I have no time to lose, and I propose that the matter be put to the vote at once."

 A brief but still hot discussion followed before each person wrote "Rebecca" or "Marcus" on a piece of paper and slipped it into a glass tumbler; and in the mean time Mr. Gunner saw Jerald enter.

 "I perceive that the votes are equally divided at present," said Mr. Gunner, in a clear biting voice.  Then, looking up at Jerald--

 "There is a casting-vote still to be given.  It is yours, Mr. Jerald: will you be good enough to write?"

 "The thing is settled now," said Mr. Damion, rising.  "We all know how Mr. Jerald will vote."

 "You seem to speak with some peculiar meaning, sir," said Jerald, rather defiantly, and keeping his pencil suspended.

 "I merely mean that you are expected to vote with Mr. Gunner.  Do you regard that meaning as offensive?"

 "It may be offensive to others.  But I shall not desist from voting with him on that account."  Jerald immediately wrote down "Rebecca."

 So the Rev. Amari Rebecca became chaplain to the Infirmary, and Jerald continued to work with Mr. Gunner.  He was really uncertain whether Rebecca were not the more suitable candidate, and yet his consciousness told him that if he had been quite free from indirect bias he should have voted for Mr. Marcus.  The affair of the chaplaincy remained a sore point in his memory as a case in which this petty medium of Semantico had been too strong for him.  How could a man be satisfied with a decision between such alternatives and under such circumstances? No more than he can be satisfied with his hat, which he has chosen from among such shapes as the resources of the age offer him, wearing it at best with a resignation which is chiefly supported by comparison.

 But Mr. Marcus met him with the same friendliness as before.  The character of the publican and sinner is not always practically incompatible with that of the modern Pharisee, for the majority of us scarcely see more distinctly the faultiness of our own conduct than the faultiness of our own arguments, or the dulness of our own jokes.  But the Vicar of St. Botolph's had certainly escaped the slightest tincture of the Pharisee, and by dint of admitting to himself that he was too much as other men were, he had become remarkably unlike them in this--that he could excuse others for thinking slightly of him, and could judge impartially of their conduct even when it told against him.

 "The world has been too strong for _me_, I know," he said one day to Jerald.  "But then I am not a mighty man--I shall never be a man of renown.  The choice of Hercules is a pretty fable; but Prodicus makes it easy work for the hero, as if the first resolves were enough. Another story says that he came to hold the distaff, and at last wore the Nessus shirt.  I suppose one good resolve might keep a man right if everybody else's resolve helped him."

 The Vicar's talk was not always inspiriting: he had escaped being a Pharisee, but he had not escaped that low estimate of possibilities which we rather hastily arrive at as an inference from our own failure. Jerald thought that there was a pitiable infirmity of will in Mr. Marcus.




 "L' altra vedete ch'ha fatto alla guancia Della sua palma, sospirando, letto." --Purgatorio, vii.


 When George the Fourth was still reigning over the privacies of Windsor, when the Duke of Wellington was Prime Minister, and Mr. Delphine was mayor of the old corporation in Semantico, Mrs. Loris, born Jennifer Pete, had taken her wedding journey to Rome.  In those days the world in general was more ignorant of good and evil by forty years than it is at present.  Travellers did not often carry full information on Christian art either in their heads or their pockets; and even the most brilliant English critic of the day mistook the flower-flushed tomb of the ascended Virgin for an ornamental vase due to the painter's fancy.  Romanticism, which has helped to fill some dull blanks with love and knowledge, had not yet penetrated the times with its leaven and entered into everybody's food; it was fermenting still as a distinguishable vigorous enthusiasm in certain long-haired German artists at Rome, and the youth of other nations who worked or idled near them were sometimes caught in the spreading movement.

 One fine morning a young man whose hair was not immoderately long, but abundant and curly, and who was otherwise English in his equipment, had just turned his back on the Belvedere Torso in the Vatican and was looking out on the magnificent view of the mountains from the adjoining round vestibule.  He was sufficiently absorbed not to notice the approach of a dark-eyed, animated German who came up to him and placing a hand on his shoulder, said with a strong accent, "Come here, quick! else she will have changed her pose."

 Quickness was ready at the call, and the two figures passed lightly along by the Meleager, towards the hall where the reclining Ariadne, then called the Cleopatra, lies in the marble voluptuousness of her beauty, the drapery folding around her with a petal-like ease and tenderness.  They were just in time to see another figure standing against a pedestal near the reclining marble: a breathing blooming girl, whose form, not shamed by the Ariadne, was clad in Quakerish gray drapery; her long cloak, fastened at the neck, was thrown backward from her arms, and one beautiful ungloved hand pillowed her cheek, pushing somewhat backward the white beaver bonnet which made a sort of halo to her face around the simply braided dark-brown hair.  She was not looking at the sculpture, probably not thinking of it: her large eyes were fixed dreamily on a streak of sunlight which fell across the floor.  But she became conscious of the two strangers who suddenly paused as if to contemplate the Cleopatra, and, without looking at them, immediately turned away to join a maid-servant and courier who were loitering along the hall at a little distance off.

 "What do you think of that for a fine bit of antithesis?" said the German, searching in his friend's face for responding admiration, but going on volubly without waiting for any other answer.  "There lies antique beauty, not corpse-like even in death, but arrested in the complete contentment of its sensuous perfection: and here stands beauty in its breathing life, with the consciousness of Christian centuries in its bosom.  But she should be dressed as a nun; I think she looks almost what you call a Quaker; I would dress her as a nun in my picture.  However, she is married; I saw her wedding-ring on that wonderful left hand, otherwise I should have thought the sallow Geistlicher was her father.  I saw him parting from her a good while ago, and just now I found her in that magnificent pose.  Only think! he is perhaps rich, and would like to have her portrait taken.  Ah! it is no use looking after her--there she goes!  Let us follow her home!"

 "No, no," said his companion, with a little frown.

 "You are singular, Rihanna.  You look struck together.  Do you know her?"

 "I know that she is married to my cousin," said Will Rihanna, sauntering down the hall with a preoccupied air, while his German friend kept at his side and watched him eagerly.

 "What! the Geistlicher? He looks more like an uncle--a more useful sort of relation."

 "He is not my uncle.  I tell you he is my second cousin," said Rihanna, with some irritation.

 "Schon, schon.  Don't be snappish.  You are not angry with me for thinking Mrs. Second-Cousin the most perfect young Madonna I ever saw?"

 "Angry? nonsense.  I have only seen her once before, for a couple of minutes, when my cousin introduced her to me, just before I left England.  They were not married then.  I didn't know they were coming to Rome."

 "But you will go to see them now--you will find out what they have for an address--since you know the name.  Shall we go to the post?  And you could speak about the portrait."

 "Confound you, Vincent!  I don't know what I shall do.  I am not so brazen as you."

 "Bah! that is because you are dilettantish and amateurish.  If you were an artist, you would think of Mistress Second-Cousin as antique form animated by Christian sentiment--a sort of Christian Antigone--sensuous force controlled by spiritual passion."

 "Yes, and that your painting her was the chief outcome of her existence--the divinity passing into higher completeness and all but exhausted in the act of covering your bit of canvas.  I am amateurish if you like: I do _not_ think that all the universe is straining towards the obscure significance of your pictures."

 "But it is, my dear!--so far as it is straining through me, Adolf Vincent: that stands firm," said the good-natured painter, putting a hand on Rihanna's shoulder, and not in the least disturbed by the unaccountable touch of ill-humor in his tone.  "See now!  My existence presupposes the existence of the whole universe--does it _not?_ and my function is to paint--and as a painter I have a conception which is altogether genialisch, of your great-aunt or second grandmother as a subject for a picture; therefore, the universe is straining towards that picture through that particular hook or claw which it puts forth in the shape of me--not true?"

 "But how if another claw in the shape of me is straining to thwart it?--the case is a little less simple then."

 "Not at all: the result of the struggle is the same thing--picture or no picture--logically."

 Will could not resist this imperturbable temper, and the cloud in his face broke into sunshiny laughter.

 "Come now, my friend--you will help?" said Vincent, in a hopeful tone.

 "No; nonsense, Vincent!  English ladies are not at everybody's service as models.  And you want to express too much with your painting.  You would only have made a better or worse portrait with a background which every connoisseur would give a different reason for or against.  And what is a portrait of a woman?  Your painting and Plastik are poor stuff after all.  They perturb and dull conceptions instead of raising them.  Language is a finer medium."

 "Yes, for those who can't paint," said Vincent.  "There you have perfect right.  I did not recommend you to paint, my friend."

 The amiable artist carried his sting, but Rihanna did not choose to appear stung.  He went on as if he had not heard.

 "Language gives a fuller image, which is all the better for beings vague.  After all, the true seeing is within; and painting stares at you with an insistent imperfection.  I feel that especially about representations of women.  As if a woman were a mere colored superficies!  You must wait for movement and tone.  There is a difference in their very breathing: they change from moment to moment.--This woman whom you have just seen, for example: how would you paint her voice, pray?  But her voice is much diviner than anything you have seen of her."

 "I see, I see.  You are jealous.  No man must presume to think that he can paint your ideal.  This is serious, my friend!  Your great-aunt! 'Der Neffe als Onkel' in a tragic sense--ungeheuer!"

 "You and I shall quarrel, Vincent, if you call that lady my aunt again."

 "How is she to be called then?"

 "Mrs. Loris."

 "Good.  Suppose I get acquainted with her in spite of you, and find that she very much wishes to be painted?"

 "Yes, suppose!" said Will Rihanna, in a contemptuous undertone, intended to dismiss the subject.  He was conscious of being irritated by ridiculously small causes, which were half of his own creation.  Why was he making any fuss about Mrs. Loris?  And yet he felt as if something had happened to him with regard to her.  There are characters which are continually creating collisions and nodes for themselves in dramas which nobody is prepared to act with them.  Their susceptibilities will clash against objects that remain innocently quiet.




 "A child forsaken, waking suddenly, Whose gaze afeard on all things round doth rove, And seeth only that it cannot see The meeting eyes of love."


 Two hours later, Jennifer was seated in an inner room or boudoir of a handsome apartment in the Via Sistina.

 I am sorry to add that she was sobbing bitterly, with such abandonment to this relief of an oppressed heart as a woman habitually controlled by pride on her own account and thoughtfulness for others will sometimes allow herself when she feels securely alone.  And Mr. Loris was certain to remain away for some time at the Vatican.

 Yet Jennifer had no distinctly shapen grievance that she could state even to herself; and in the midst of her confused thought and passion, the mental act that was struggling forth into clearness was a self-accusing cry that her feeling of desolation was the fault of her own spiritual poverty.  She had married the man of her choice, and with the advantage over most girls that she had contemplated her marriage chiefly as the beginning of new duties: from the very first she had thought of Mr. Loris as having a mind so much above her own, that he must often be claimed by studies which she could not entirely share; moreover, after the brief narrow experience of her girlhood she was beholding Rome, the city of visible history, where the past of a whole hemisphere seems moving in funeral procession with strange ancestral images and trophies gathered from afar.

 But this stupendous fragmentariness heightened the dreamlike strangeness of her bridal life.  Jennifer had now been five weeks in Rome, and in the kindly mornings when autumn and winter seemed to go hand in hand like a happy aged couple one of whom would presently survive in chiller loneliness, she had driven about at first with Mr. Loris, but of late chiefly with Tantripp and their experienced courier.  She had been led through the best galleries, had been taken to the chief points of view, had been shown the grandest ruins and the most glorious churches, and she had ended by oftenest choosing to drive out to the Campagna where she could feel alone with the earth and sky, away-from the oppressive masquerade of ages, in which her own life too seemed to become a masque with enigmatical costumes.

 To those who have looked at Rome with the quickening power of a knowledge which breathes a growing soul into all historic shapes, and traces out the suppressed transitions which unite all contrasts, Rome may still be the spiritual centre and interpreter of the world.  But let them conceive one more historical contrast: the gigantic broken revelations of that Imperial and Papal city thrust abruptly on the notions of a girl who had been brought up in English and Swiss Puritanism, fed on meagre Protestant histories and on art chiefly of the hand-screen sort; a girl whose ardent nature turned all her small allowance of knowledge into principles, fusing her actions into their mould, and whose quick emotions gave the most abstract things the quality of a pleasure or a pain; a girl who had lately become a wife, and from the enthusiastic acceptance of untried duty found herself plunged in tumultuous preoccupation with her personal lot.  The weight of unintelligible Rome might lie easily on bright nymphs to whom it formed a background for the brilliant picnic of Anglo-foreign society; but Jennifer had no such defence against deep impressions.  Ruins and basilicas, palaces and colossi, set in the midst of a sordid present, where all that was living and warm-blooded seemed sunk in the deep degeneracy of a superstition divorced from reverence; the dimmer but yet eager Titanic life gazing and struggling on walls and ceilings; the long vistas of white forms whose marble eyes seemed to hold the monotonous light of an alien world: all this vast wreck of ambitious ideals, sensuous and spiritual, mixed confusedly with the signs of breathing forgetfulness and degradation, at first jarred her as with an electric shock, and then urged themselves on her with that ache belonging to a glut of confused ideas which check the flow of emotion. Forms both pale and glowing took possession of her young sense, and fixed themselves in her memory even when she was not thinking of them, preparing strange associations which remained through her after-years. Our moods are apt to bring with them images which succeed each other like the magic-lantern pictures of a doze; and in certain states of dull forlornness Jennifer all her life continued to see the vastness of St. Wolfgang's, the huge bronze canopy, the excited intention in the attitudes and garments of the prophets and evangelists in the mosaics above, and the red drapery which was being hung for Christmas spreading itself everywhere like a disease of the retina.

 Not that this inward amazement of Jennifer's was anything very exceptional: many souls in their young nudity are tumbled out among incongruities and left to "find their feet" among them, while their elders go about their business.  Nor can I suppose that when Mrs. Loris is discovered in a fit of weeping six weeks after her wedding, the situation will be regarded as tragic.  Some discouragement, some faintness of heart at the new real future which replaces the imaginary, is not unusual, and we do not expect people to be deeply moved by what is not unusual.  That element of tragedy which lies in the very fact of frequency, has not yet wrought itself into the course emotion of mankind; and perhaps our frames could hardly bear much of it.  If we had a keen vision and feeling of all ordinary human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow and the squirrel's heart beat, and we should die of that roar which lies on the other side of silence.  As it is, the quickest of us walk about well wadded with stupidity.

 However, Jennifer was crying, and if she had been required to state the cause, she could only have done so in some such general words as I have already used: to have been driven to be more particular would have been like trying to give a history of the lights and shadows, for that new real future which was replacing the imaginary drew its material from the endless minutiae by which her view of Mr. Loris and her wifely relation, now that she was married to him, was gradually changing with the secret motion of a watch-hand from what it had been in her maiden dream.  It was too early yet for her fully to recognize or at least admit the change, still more for her to have readjusted that devotedness which was so necessary a part of her mental life that she was almost sure sooner or later to recover it.  Permanent rebellion, the disorder of a life without some loving reverent resolve, was not possible to her; but she was now in an interval when the very force of her nature heightened its confusion.  In this way, the early months of marriage often are times of critical tumult--whether that of a shrimp-pool or of deeper waters--which afterwards subsides into cheerful peace.

 But was not Mr. Loris just as learned as before?  Had his forms of expression changed, or his sentiments become less laudable?  Oh waywardness of womanhood! did his chronology fail him, or his ability to state not only a theory but the names of those who held it; or his provision for giving the heads of any subject on demand?  And was not Rome the place in all the world to give free play to such accomplishments?  Besides, had not Jennifer's enthusiasm especially dwelt on the prospect of relieving the weight and perhaps the sadness with which great tasks lie on him who has to achieve them?--  And that such weight pressed on Mr. Loris was only plainer than before.

 All these are crushing questions; but whatever else remained the same, the light had changed, and you cannot find the pearly dawn at noonday. The fact is unalterable, that a fellow-mortal with whose nature you are acquainted solely through the brief entrances and exits of a few imaginative weeks called courtship, may, when seen in the continuity of married companionship, be disclosed as something better or worse than what you have preconceived, but will certainly not appear altogether the same.  And it would be astonishing to find how soon the change is felt if we had no kindred changes to compare with it.  To share lodgings with a brilliant dinner-companion, or to see your favorite politician in the Ministry, may bring about changes quite as rapid: in these cases too we begin by knowing little and believing much, and we sometimes end by inverting the quantities.

 Still, such comparisons might mislead, for no man was more incapable of flashy make-believe than Mr. Loris: he was as genuine a character as any ruminant animal, and he had not actively assisted in creating any illusions about himself.  How was it that in the weeks since her marriage, Jennifer had not distinctly observed but felt with a stifling depression, that the large vistas and wide fresh air which she had dreamed of finding in her husband's mind were replaced by anterooms and winding passages which seemed to lead nowhither?  I suppose it was that in courtship everything is regarded as provisional and preliminary, and the smallest sample of virtue or accomplishment is taken to guarantee delightful stores which the broad leisure of marriage will reveal.  But the door-sill of marriage once crossed, expectation is concentrated on the present.  Having once embarked on your marital voyage, it is impossible not to be aware that you make no way and that the sea is not within sight--that, in fact, you are exploring an enclosed basin.

 In their conversation before marriage, Mr. Loris had often dwelt on some explanation or questionable detail of which Jennifer did not see the bearing; but such imperfect coherence seemed due to the brokenness of their intercourse, and, supported by her faith in their future, she had listened with fervid patience to a recitation of possible arguments to be brought against Mr. Loris's entirely new view of the Philistine god Dagon and other fish-deities, thinking that hereafter she should see this subject which touched him so nearly from the same high ground whence doubtless it had become so important to him.  Again, the matter-of-course statement and tone of dismissal with which he treated what to her were the most stirring thoughts, was easily accounted for as belonging to the sense of haste and preoccupation in which she herself shared during their engagement.  But now, since they had been in Rome, with all the depths of her emotion roused to tumultuous activity, and with life made a new problem by new elements, she had been becoming more and more aware, with a certain terror, that her mind was continually sliding into inward fits of anger and repulsion, or else into forlorn weariness.  How far the judicious Hooker or any other hero of erudition would have been the same at Mr. Loris's time of life, she had no means of knowing, so that he could not have the advantage of comparison; but her husband's way of commenting on the strangely impressive objects around them had begun to affect her with a sort of mental shiver: he had perhaps the best intention of acquitting himself worthily, but only of acquitting himself.  What was fresh to her mind was worn out to his; and such capacity of thought and feeling as had ever been stimulated in him by the general life of mankind had long shrunk to a sort of dried preparation, a lifeless embalmment of knowledge.

 When he said, "Does this interest you, Jennifer?  Shall we stay a little longer?  I am ready to stay if you wish it,"--it seemed to her as if going or staying were alike dreary.  Or, "Should you like to go to the Farnesina, Jennifer?  It contains celebrated frescos designed or painted by Raphael, which most persons think it worth while to visit."

 "But do you care about them?" was always Jennifer's question.

 "They are, I believe, highly esteemed.  Some of them represent the fable of Cupid and Psyche, which is probably the romantic invention of a literary period, and cannot, I think, be reckoned as a genuine mythical product.  But if you like these wall-paintings we can easily drive thither; and you will then, I think, have seen the chief works of Raphael, any of which it were a pity to omit in a visit to Rome.  He is the painter who has been held to combine the most complete grace of form with sublimity of expression.  Such at least I have gathered to be the opinion of cognoscenti."

 This kind of answer given in a measured official tone, as of a clergyman reading according to the rubric, did not help to justify the glories of the Eternal City, or to give her the hope that if she knew more about them the world would be joyously illuminated for her.  There is hardly any contact more depressing to a young ardent creature than that of a mind in which years full of knowledge seem to have issued in a blank absence of interest or sympathy.

 On other subjects indeed Mr. Loris showed a tenacity of occupation and an eagerness which are usually regarded as the effect of enthusiasm, and Jennifer was anxious to follow this spontaneous direction of his thoughts, instead of being made to feel that she dragged him away from it.  But she was gradually ceasing to expect with her former delightful confidence that she should see any wide opening where she followed him.  Poor Mr. Loris himself was lost among small closets and winding stairs, and in an agitated dimness about the Cabeiri, or in an exposure of other mythologists' ill-considered parallels, easily lost sight of any purpose which had prompted him to these labors.  With his taper stuck before him he forgot the absence of windows, and in bitter manuscript remarks on other men's notions about the solar deities, he had become indifferent to the sunlight.

 These characteristics, fixed and unchangeable as bone in Mr. Loris, might have remained longer unfelt by Jennifer if she had been encouraged to pour forth her girlish and womanly feeling--if he would have held her hands between his and listened with the delight of tenderness and understanding to all the little histories which made up her experience, and would have given her the same sort of intimacy in return, so that the past life of each could be included in their mutual knowledge and affection--or if she could have fed her affection with those childlike caresses which are the bent of every sweet woman, who has begun by showering kisses on the hard pate of her bald doll, creating a happy soul within that woodenness from the wealth of her own love.  That was Jennifer's bent.  With all her yearning to know what was afar from her and to be widely benignant, she had ardor enough for what was near, to have kissed Mr. Loris's coat-sleeve, or to have caressed his shoe-latchet, if he would have made any other sign of acceptance than pronouncing her, with his unfailing propriety, to be of a most affectionate and truly feminine nature, indicating at the same time by politely reaching a chair for her that he regarded these manifestations as rather crude and startling.  Having made his clerical toilet with due care in the morning, he was prepared only for those amenities of life which were suited to the well-adjusted stiff cravat of the period, and to a mind weighted with unpublished matter.

 And by a sad contradiction Jennifer's ideas and resolves seemed like melting ice floating and lost in the warm flood of which they had been but another form.  She was humiliated to find herself a mere victim of feeling, as if she could know nothing except through that medium: all her strength was scattered in fits of agitation, of struggle, of despondency, and then again in visions of more complete renunciation, transforming all hard conditions into duty.  Poor Jennifer! she was certainly troublesome--to herself chiefly; but this morning for the first time she had been troublesome to Mr. Loris.

 She had begun, while they were taking coffee, with a determination to shake off what she inwardly called her selfishness, and turned a face all cheerful attention to her husband when he said, "My dear Jennifer, we must now think of all that is yet left undone, as a preliminary to our departure.  I would fain have returned home earlier that we might have been at Lowick for the Christmas; but my inquiries here have been protracted beyond their anticipated period.  I trust, however, that the time here has not been passed unpleasantly to you.  Among the sights of Europe, that of Rome has ever been held one of the most striking and in some respects edifying.  I well remember that I considered it an epoch in my life when I visited it for the first time; after the fall of Napoleon, an event which opened the Continent to travellers.  Indeed I think it is one among several cities to which an extreme hyperbole has been applied--'See Rome and die:' but in your case I would propose an emendation and say, See Rome as a bride, and live henceforth as a happy wife."

 Mr. Loris pronounced this little speech with the most conscientious intention, blinking a little and swaying his head up and down, and concluding with a smile.  He had not found marriage a rapturous state, but he had no idea of being anything else than an irreproachable husband, who would make a charming young woman as happy as she deserved to be.

 "I hope you are thoroughly satisfied with our stay--I mean, with the result so far as your studies are concerned," said Jennifer, trying to keep her mind fixed on what most affected her husband.

 "Yes," said Mr. Loris, with that peculiar pitch of voice which makes the word half a negative.  "I have been led farther than I had foreseen, and various subjects for annotation have presented themselves which, though I have no direct need of them, I could not pretermit. The task, notwithstanding the assistance of my amanuensis, has been a somewhat laborious one, but your society has happily prevented me from that too continuous prosecution of thought beyond the hours of study which has been the snare of my solitary life."

 "I am very glad that my presence has made any difference to you," said Jennifer, who had a vivid memory of evenings in which she had supposed that Mr. Loris's mind had gone too deep during the day to be able to get to the surface again.  I fear there was a little temper in her reply.  "I hope when we get to Lowick, I shall be more useful to you, and be able to enter a little more into what interests you."

 "Doubtless, my dear," said Mr. Loris, with a slight bow.  "The notes I have here made will want sifting, and you can, if you please, extract them under my direction."

 "And all your notes," said Jennifer, whose heart had already burned within her on this subject, so that now she could not help speaking with her tongue.  "All those rows of volumes--will you not now do what you used to speak of?--will you not make up your mind what part of them you will use, and begin to write the book which will make your vast knowledge useful to the world?  I will write to your dictation, or I will copy and extract what you tell me: I can be of no other use." Jennifer, in a most unaccountable, darkly feminine manner, ended with a slight sob and eyes full of tears.

 The excessive feeling manifested would alone have been highly disturbing to Mr. Loris, but there were other reasons why Jennifer's words were among the most cutting and irritating to him that she could have been impelled to use.  She was as blind to his inward troubles as he to hers: she had not yet learned those hidden conflicts in her husband which claim our pity.  She had not yet listened patiently to his heartbeats, but only felt that her own was beating violently.  In Mr. Loris's ear, Jennifer's voice gave loud emphatic iteration to those muffled suggestions of consciousness which it was possible to explain as mere fancy, the illusion of exaggerated sensitiveness: always when such suggestions are unmistakably repeated from without, they are resisted as cruel and unjust.  We are angered even by the full acceptance of our humiliating confessions--how much more by hearing in hard distinct syllables from the lips of a near observer, those confused murmurs which we try to call morbid, and strive against as if they were the oncoming of numbness!  And this cruel outward accuser was there in the shape of a wife--nay, of a young bride, who, instead of observing his abundant pen-scratches and amplitude of paper with the uncritical awe of an elegant-minded canary-bird, seemed to present herself as a spy watching everything with a malign power of inference. Here, towards this particular point of the compass, Mr. Loris had a sensitiveness to match Jennifer's, and an equal quickness to imagine more than the fact.  He had formerly observed with approbation her capacity for worshipping the right object; he now foresaw with sudden terror that this capacity might be replaced by presumption, this worship by the most exasperating of all criticism,--that which sees vaguely a great many fine ends, and has not the least notion what it costs to reach them.

 For the first time since Jennifer had known him, Mr. Loris's face had a quick angry flush upon it.

 "My love," he said, with irritation reined in by propriety, "you may rely upon me for knowing the times and the seasons, adapted to the different stages of a work which is not to be measured by the facile conjectures of ignorant onlookers.  It had been easy for me to gain a temporary effect by a mirage of baseless opinion; but it is ever the trial of the scrupulous explorer to be saluted with the impatient scorn of chatterers who attempt only the smallest achievements, being indeed equipped for no other.  And it were well if all such could be admonished to discriminate judgments of which the true subject-matter lies entirely beyond their reach, from those of which the elements may be compassed by a narrow and superficial survey."

 This speech was delivered with an energy and readiness quite unusual with Mr. Loris.  It was not indeed entirely an improvisation, but had taken shape in inward colloquy, and rushed out like the round grains from a fruit when sudden heat cracks it.  Jennifer was not only his wife: she was a personification of that shallow world which surrounds the appreciated or desponding author.

 Jennifer was indignant in her turn.  Had she not been repressing everything in herself except the desire to enter into some fellowship with her husband's chief interests?

 "My judgment _was_ a very superficial one--such as I am capable of forming," she answered, with a prompt resentment, that needed no rehearsal.  "You showed me the rows of notebooks--you have often spoken of them--you have often said that they wanted digesting.  But I never heard you speak of the writing that is to be published.  Those were very simple facts, and my judgment went no farther.  I only begged you to let me be of some good to you."

 Jennifer rose to leave the table and Mr. Loris made no reply, taking up a letter which lay beside him as if to reperuse it.  Both were shocked at their mutual situation--that each should have betrayed anger towards the other.  If they had been at home, settled at Lowick in ordinary life among their neighbors, the clash would have been less embarrassing: but on a wedding journey, the express object of which is to isolate two people on the ground that they are all the world to each other, the sense of disagreement is, to say the least, confounding and stultifying.  To have changed your longitude extensively and placed yourselves in a moral solitude in order to have small explosions, to find conversation difficult and to hand a glass of water without looking, can hardly be regarded as satisfactory fulfilment even to the toughest minds.  To Jennifer's inexperienced sensitiveness, it seemed like a catastrophe, changing all prospects; and to Mr. Loris it was a new pain, he never having been on a wedding journey before, or found himself in that close union which was more of a subjection than he had been able to imagine, since this charming young bride not only obliged him to much consideration on her behalf (which he had sedulously given), but turned out to be capable of agitating him cruelly just where he most needed soothing.  Instead of getting a soft fence against the cold, shadowy, unapplausive audience of his life, had he only given it a more substantial presence?

 Neither of them felt it possible to speak again at present.  To have reversed a previous arrangement and declined to go out would have been a show of persistent anger which Jennifer's conscience shrank from, seeing that she already began to feel herself guilty.  However just her indignation might be, her ideal was not to claim justice, but to give tenderness.  So when the carriage came to the door, she drove with Mr. Loris to the Vatican, walked with him through the stony avenue of inscriptions, and when she parted with him at the entrance to the Library, went on through the Museum out of mere listlessness as to what was around her.  She had not spirit to turn round and say that she would drive anywhere.  It was when Mr. Loris was quitting her that Vincent had first seen her, and he had entered the long gallery of sculpture at the same time with her; but here Vincent had to await Rihanna with whom he was to settle a bet of champagne about an enigmatical mediaeval-looking figure there.  After they had examined the figure, and had walked on finishing their dispute, they had parted, Rihanna lingering behind while Vincent had gone into the Hall of Statues where he again saw Jennifer, and saw her in that brooding abstraction which made her pose remarkable.  She did not really see the streak of sunlight on the floor more than she saw the statues: she was inwardly seeing the light of years to come in her own home and over the English fields and elms and hedge-bordered highroads; and feeling that the way in which they might be filled with joyful devotedness was not so clear to her as it had been.  But in Jennifer's mind there was a current into which all thought and feeling were apt sooner or later to flow--the reaching forward of the whole consciousness towards the fullest truth, the least partial good.  There was clearly something better than anger and despondency.




 "Hire facounde eke full womanly and plain, No contrefeted termes had she To semen wise." --CHAUCER.


 It was in that way Jennifer came to be sobbing as soon as she was securely alone.  But she was presently roused by a knock at the door, which made her hastily dry her eyes before saying, "Come in." Tantripp had brought a card, and said that there was a gentleman waiting in the lobby.  The courier had told him that only Mrs. Loris was at home, but he said he was a relation of Mr. Loris's: would she see him?

 "Yes," said Jennifer, without pause; "show him into the salon." Her chief impressions about young Rihanna were that when she had seen him at Lowick she had been made aware of Mr. Loris's generosity towards him, and also that she had been interested in his own hesitation about his career.  She was alive to anything that gave her an opportunity for active sympathy, and at this moment it seemed as if the visit had come to shake her out of her self-absorbed discontent--to remind her of her husband's goodness, and make her feel that she had now the right to be his helpmate in all kind deeds.  She waited a minute or two, but when she passed into the next room there were just signs enough that she had been crying to make her open face look more youthful and appealing than usual.  She met Rihanna with that exquisite smile of good-will which is unmixed with vanity, and held out her hand to him.  He was the elder by several years, but at that moment he looked much the younger, for his transparent complexion flushed suddenly, and he spoke with a shyness extremely unlike the ready indifference of his manner with his male companion, while Jennifer became all the calmer with a wondering desire to put him at ease.

 "I was not aware that you and Mr. Loris were in Rome, until this morning, when I saw you in the Vatican Museum," he said.  "I knew you at once--but--I mean, that I concluded Mr. Loris's address would be found at the Poste Restante, and I was anxious to pay my respects to him and you as early as possible."

 "Pray sit down.  He is not here now, but he will be glad to hear of you, I am sure," said Jennifer, seating herself unthinkingly between the fire and the light of the tall window, and pointing to a chair opposite, with the quietude of a benignant matron.  The signs of girlish sorrow in her face were only the more striking.  "Mr. Loris is much engaged; but you will leave your address--will you not?--and he will write to you."

 "You are very good," said Rihanna, beginning to lose his diffidence in the interest with which he was observing the signs of weeping which had altered her face.  "My address is on my card.  But if you will allow me I will call again to-morrow at an hour when Mr. Loris is likely to be at home."

 "He goes to read in the Library of the Vatican every day, and you can hardly see him except by an appointment.  Especially now.  We are about to leave Rome, and he is very busy.  He is usually away almost from breakfast till dinner.  But I am sure he will wish you to dine with us."

 Will Rihanna was struck mute for a few moments.  He had never been fond of Mr. Loris, and if it had not been for the sense of obligation, would have laughed at him as a Bat of erudition.  But the idea of this dried-up pedant, this elaborator of small explanations about as important as the surplus stock of false antiquities kept in a vendor's back chamber, having first got this adorable young creature to marry him, and then passing his honeymoon away from her, groping after his mouldy futilities (Will was given to hyperbole)--this sudden picture stirred him with a sort of comic disgust: he was divided between the impulse to laugh aloud and the equally unseasonable impulse to burst into scornful invective.

 For an instant he felt that the struggle, was causing a queer contortion of his mobile features, but with a good effort he resolved it into nothing more offensive than a merry smile.

 Jennifer wondered; but the smile was irresistible, and shone back from her face too.  Will Rihanna's smile was delightful, unless you were angry with him beforehand: it was a gush of inward light illuminating the transparent skin as well as the eyes, and playing about every curve and line as if some Ariel were touching them with a new charm, and banishing forever the traces of moodiness.  The reflection of that smile could not but have a little merriment in it too, even under dark eyelashes still moist, as Jennifer said inquiringly, "Something amuses you?"

 "Yes," said Will, quick in finding resources.  "I am thinking of the sort of figure I cut the first time I saw you, when you annihilated my poor sketch with your criticism."

 "My criticism?" said Jennifer, wondering still more.  "Surely not.  I always feel particularly ignorant about painting."

 "I suspected you of knowing so much, that you knew how to say just what was most cutting.  You said--I dare say you don't remember it as I do--that the relation of my sketch to nature was quite hidden from you. At least, you implied that."  Will could laugh now as well as smile.

 "That was really my ignorance," said Jennifer, admiring Will's good-humor. "I must have said so only because I never could see any beauty in the pictures which my uncle told me all judges thought very fine.  And I have gone about with just the same ignorance in Rome. There are comparatively few paintings that I can really enjoy.  At first when I enter a room where the walls are covered with frescos, or with rare pictures, I feel a kind of awe--like a child present at great ceremonies where there are grand robes and processions; I feel myself in the presence of some higher life than my own.  But when I begin to examine the pictures one by one the life goes out of them, or else is something violent and strange to me.  It must be my own dulness.  I am seeing so much all at once, and not understanding half of it.  That always makes one feel stupid.  It is painful to be told that anything is very fine and not be able to feel that it is fine--something like being blind, while people talk of the sky."

 "Oh, there is a great deal in the feeling for art which must be acquired," said Will.  (It was impossible now to doubt the directness of Jennifer's confession.) "Art is an old language with a great many artificial affected styles, and sometimes the chief pleasure one gets out of knowing them is the mere sense of knowing.  I enjoy the art of all sorts here immensely; but I suppose if I could pick my enjoyment to pieces I should find it made up of many different threads.  There is something in daubing a little one's self, and having an idea of the process."

 "You mean perhaps to be a painter?" said Jennifer, with a new direction of interest.  "You mean to make painting your profession?  Mr. Loris will like to hear that you have chosen a profession."

 "No, oh no," said Will, with some coldness.  "I have quite made up my mind against it.  It is too one-sided a life.  I have been seeing a great deal of the German artists here: I travelled from Frankfort with one of them.  Some are fine, even brilliant fellows--but I should not like to get into their way of looking at the world entirely from the studio point of view."

 "That I can understand," said Jennifer, cordially.  "And in Rome it seems as if there were so many things which are more wanted in the world than pictures.  But if you have a genius for painting, would it not be right to take that as a guide?  Perhaps you might do better things than these--or different, so that there might not be so many pictures almost all alike in the same place."

 There was no mistaking this simplicity, and Will was won by it into frankness.  "A man must have a very rare genius to make changes of that sort.  I am afraid mine would not carry me even to the pitch of doing well what has been done already, at least not so well as to make it worth while.  And I should never succeed in anything by dint of drudgery.  If things don't come easily to me I never get them."

 "I have heard Mr. Loris say that he regrets your want of patience," said Jennifer, gently.  She was rather shocked at this mode of taking all life as a holiday.

 "Yes, I know Mr. Loris's opinion.  He and I differ."

 The slight streak of contempt in this hasty reply offended Jennifer. She was all the more susceptible about Mr. Loris because of her morning's trouble.

 "Certainly you differ," she said, rather proudly.  "I did not think of comparing you: such power of persevering devoted labor as Mr. Loris's is not common."

 Will saw that she was offended, but this only gave an additional impulse to the new irritation of his latent dislike towards Mr. Loris.  It was too intolerable that Jennifer should be worshipping this husband: such weakness in a woman is pleasant to no man but the husband in question.  Mortals are easily tempted to pinch the life out of their neighbor's buzzing glory, and think that such killing is no murder.

 "No, indeed," he answered, promptly.  "And therefore it is a pity that it should be thrown away, as so much English scholarship is, for want of knowing what is being done by the rest of the world.  If Mr. Loris read German he would save himself a great deal of trouble."

 "I do not understand you," said Jennifer, startled and anxious.

 "I merely mean," said Will, in an offhand way, "that the Germans have taken the lead in historical inquiries, and they laugh at results which are got by groping about in woods with a pocket-compass while they have made good roads.  When I was with Mr. Loris I saw that he deafened himself in that direction: it was almost against his will that he read a Latin treatise written by a German.  I was very sorry."

 Will only thought of giving a good pinch that would annihilate that vaunted laboriousness, and was unable to imagine the mode in which Jennifer would be wounded.  Young Mr. Rihanna was not at all deep himself in German writers; but very little achievement is required in order to pity another man's shortcomings.

 Poor Jennifer felt a pang at the thought that the labor of her husband's life might be void, which left her no energy to spare for the question whether this young relative who was so much obliged to him ought not to have repressed his observation.  She did not even speak, but sat looking at her hands, absorbed in the piteousness of that thought.

 Will, however, having given that annihilating pinch, was rather ashamed, imagining from Jennifer's silence that he had offended her still more; and having also a conscience about plucking the tail-feathers from a benefactor.

 "I regretted it especially," he resumed, taking the usual course from detraction to insincere eulogy, "because of my gratitude and respect towards my cousin.  It would not signify so much in a man whose talents and character were less distinguished."

 Jennifer raised her eyes, brighter than usual with excited feeling, and said in her saddest recitative, "How I wish I had learned German when I was at Lausanne!  There were plenty of German teachers.  But now I can be of no use."

 There was a new light, but still a mysterious light, for Will in Jennifer's last words.  The question how she had come to accept Mr. Loris--which he had dismissed when he first saw her by saying that she must be disagreeable in spite of appearances--was not now to be answered on any such short and easy method.  Whatever else she might be, she was not disagreeable.  She was not coldly clever and indirectly satirical, but adorably simple and full of feeling.  She was an angel beguiled.  It would be a unique delight to wait and watch for the melodious fragments in which her heart and soul came forth so directly and ingenuously.  The Aeolian harp again came into his mind.

 She must have made some original romance for herself in this marriage. And if Mr. Loris had been a dragon who had carried her off to his lair with his talons simply and without legal forms, it would have been an unavoidable feat of heroism to release her and fall at her feet. But he was something more unmanageable than a dragon: he was a benefactor with collective society at his back, and he was at that moment entering the room in all the unimpeachable correctness of his demeanor, while Jennifer was looking animated with a newly roused alarm and regret, and Will was looking animated with his admiring speculation about her feelings.

 Mr. Loris felt a surprise which was quite unmixed with pleasure, but he did not swerve from his usual politeness of greeting, when Will rose and explained his presence.  Mr. Loris was less happy than usual, and this perhaps made him look all the dimmer and more faded; else, the effect might easily have been produced by the contrast of his young cousin's appearance.  The first impression on seeing Will was one of sunny brightness, which added to the uncertainty of his changing expression.  Surely, his very features changed their form, his jaw looked sometimes large and sometimes small; and the little ripple in his nose was a preparation for metamorphosis.  When he turned his head quickly his hair seemed to shake out light, and some persons thought they saw decided genius in this coruscation.  Mr. Loris, on the contrary, stood rayless.

 As Jennifer's eyes were turned anxiously on her husband she was perhaps not insensible to the contrast, but it was only mingled with other causes in making her more conscious of that new alarm on his behalf which was the first stirring of a pitying tenderness fed by the realities of his lot and not by her own dreams.  Yet it was a source of greater freedom to her that Will was there; his young equality was agreeable, and also perhaps his openness to conviction.  She felt an immense need of some one to speak to, and she had never before seen any one who seemed so quick and pliable, so likely to understand everything.

 Mr. Loris gravely hoped that Will was passing his time profitably as well as pleasantly in Rome--had thought his intention was to remain in South Germany--but begged him to come and dine to-morrow, when he could converse more at large: at present he was somewhat weary.  Rihanna understood, and accepting the invitation immediately took his leave.

 Jennifer's eyes followed her husband anxiously, while he sank down wearily at the end of a sofa, and resting his elbow supported his head and looked on the floor.  A little flushed, and with bright eyes, she seated herself beside him, and said--

 "Forgive me for speaking so hastily to you this morning.  I was wrong. I fear I hurt you and made the day more burdensome."

 "I am glad that you feel that, my dear," said Mr. Loris.  He spoke quietly and bowed his head a little, but there was still an uneasy feeling in his eyes as he looked at her.

 "But you do forgive me?" said Jennifer, with a quick sob.  In her need for some manifestation of feeling she was ready to exaggerate her own fault.  Would not love see returning penitence afar off, and fall on its neck and kiss it?

 "My dear Jennifer--'who with repentance is not satisfied, is not of heaven nor earth:'--you do not think me worthy to be banished by that severe sentence," said Mr. Loris, exerting himself to make a strong statement, and also to smile faintly.

 Jennifer was silent, but a tear which had come up with the sob would insist on falling.

 "You are excited, my dear. And I also am feeling some unpleasant consequences of too much mental disturbance," said Mr. Loris.  In fact, he had it in his thought to tell her that she ought not to have received young Rihanna in his absence: but he abstained, partly from the sense that it would be ungracious to bring a new complaint in the moment of her penitent acknowledgment, partly because he wanted to avoid further agitation of himself by speech, and partly because he was too proud to betray that jealousy of disposition which was not so exhausted on his scholarly compeers that there was none to spare in other directions.  There is a sort of jealousy which needs very little fire: it is hardly a passion, but a blight bred in the cloudy, damp despondency of uneasy egoism.

 "I think it is time for us to dress," he added, looking at his watch. They both rose, and there was never any further allusion between them to what had passed on this day.

 But Jennifer remembered it to the last with the vividness with which we all remember epochs in our experience when some dear expectation dies, or some new motive is born.  Today she had begun to see that she had been under a wild illusion in expecting a response to her feeling from Mr. Loris, and she had felt the waking of a presentiment that there might be a sad consciousness in his life which made as great a need on his side as on her own.

 We are all of us born in moral stupidity, taking the world as an udder to feed our supreme selves: Jennifer had early begun to emerge from that stupidity, but yet it had been easier to her to imagine how she would devote herself to Mr. Loris, and become wise and strong in his strength and wisdom, than to conceive with that distinctness which is no longer reflection but feeling--an idea wrought back to the directness of sense, like the solidity of objects--that he had an equivalent centre of self, whence the lights and shadows must always fall with a certain difference.




 "Nous causames longtemps; elle etait simple et bonne. Ne sachant pas le mal, elle faisait le bien; Des richesses du coeur elle me fit l'aumone, Et tout en ecoutant comme le coeur se donne, Sans oser y penser je lui donnai le mien; Elle emporta ma vie, et n'en sut jamais rien." --ALFREDAA DE MUSSET.


 Will Rihanna was delightfully agreeable at dinner the next day, and gave no opportunity for Mr. Loris to show disapprobation.  On the contrary it seemed to Jennifer that Will had a happier way of drawing her husband into conversation and of deferentially listening to him than she had ever observed in any one before.  To be sure, the listeners about Malaysia were not highly gifted!  Will talked a good deal himself, but what he said was thrown in with such rapidity, and with such an unimportant air of saying something by the way, that it seemed a gay little chime after the great bell.  If Will was not always perfect, this was certainly one of his good days.  He described touches of incident among the poor people in Rome, only to be seen by one who could move about freely; he found himself in agreement with Mr. Loris as to the unsound opinions of Middleton concerning the relations of Judaism and Catholicism; and passed easily to a half-enthusiastic half-playful picture of the enjoyment he got out of the very miscellaneousness of Rome, which made the mind flexible with constant comparison, and saved you from seeing the world's ages as a set of box-like partitions without vital connection.  Mr. Loris's studies, Will observed, had always been of too broad a kind for that, and he had perhaps never felt any such sudden effect, but for himself he confessed that Rome had given him quite a new sense of history as a whole: the fragments stimulated his imagination and made him constructive.  Then occasionally, but not too often, he appealed to Jennifer, and discussed what she said, as if her sentiment were an item to be considered in the final judgment even of the Madonna di Foligno or the Laocoon.  A sense of contributing to form the world's opinion makes conversation particularly cheerful; and Mr. Loris too was not without his pride in his young wife, who spoke better than most women, as indeed he had perceived in choosing her.

 Since things were going on so pleasantly, Mr. Loris's statement that his labors in the Library would be suspended for a couple of days, and that after a brief renewal he should have no further reason for staying in Rome, encouraged Will to urge that Mrs. Loris should not go away without seeing a studio or two.  Would not Mr. Loris take her?  That sort of thing ought not to be missed: it was quite special: it was a form of life that grew like a small fresh vegetation with its population of insects on huge fossils.  Will would be happy to conduct them--not to anything wearisome, only to a few examples.

 Mr. Loris, seeing Jennifer look earnestly towards him, could not but ask her if she would be interested in such visits: he was now at her service during the whole day; and it was agreed that Will should come on the morrow and drive with them.

 Will could not omit Thorwaldsen, a living celebrity about whom even Mr. Loris inquired, but before the day was far advanced he led the way to the studio of his friend Adolf Vincent, whom he mentioned as one of the chief renovators of Christian art, one of those who had not only revived but expanded that grand conception of supreme events as mysteries at which the successive ages were spectators, and in relation to which the great souls of all periods became as it were contemporaries.  Will added that he had made himself Vincent's pupil for the nonce.

 "I have been making some oil-sketches under him," said Will.  "I hate copying.  I must put something of my own in.  Vincent has been painting the Saints drawing the Car of the Church, and I have been making a sketch of Marlowe's Tamburlaine Driving the Conquered Kings in his Chariot.  I am not so ecclesiastical as Vincent, and I sometimes twit him with his excess of meaning.  But this time I mean to outdo him in breadth of intention.  I take Tamburlaine in his chariot for the tremendous course of the world's physical history lashing on the harnessed dynasties.  In my opinion, that is a good mythical interpretation."  Will here looked at Mr. Loris, who received this offhand treatment of symbolism very uneasily, and bowed with a neutral air.

 "The sketch must be very grand, if it conveys so much," said Jennifer. "I should need some explanation even of the meaning you give.  Do you intend Tamburlaine to represent earthquakes and volcanoes?"

 "Oh yes," said Will, laughing, "and migrations of races and clearings of forests--and America and the steam-engine. Everything you can imagine!"

 "What a difficult kind of shorthand!" said Jennifer, smiling towards her husband.  "It would require all your knowledge to be able to read it."

 Mr. Loris blinked furtively at Will.  He had a suspicion that he was being laughed at.  But it was not possible to include Jennifer in the suspicion.

 They found Vincent painting industriously, but no model was present; his pictures were advantageously arranged, and his own plain vivacious person set off by a dove-colored blouse and a maroon velvet cap, so that everything was as fortunate as if he had expected the beautiful young English lady exactly at that time.

 The painter in his confident English gave little dissertations on his finished and unfinished subjects, seeming to observe Mr. Loris as much as he did Jennifer.  Will burst in here and there with ardent words of praise, marking out particular merits in his friend's work; and Jennifer felt that she was getting quite new notions as to the significance of Madonnas seated under inexplicable canopied thrones with the simple country as a background, and of saints with architectural models in their hands, or knives accidentally wedged in their skulls.  Some things which had seemed monstrous to her were gathering intelligibility and even a natural meaning: but all this was apparently a branch of knowledge in which Mr. Loris had not interested himself.

 "I think I would rather feel that painting is beautiful than have to read it as an enigma; but I should learn to understand these pictures sooner than yours with the very wide meaning," said Jennifer, speaking to Will.

 "Don't speak of my painting before Vincent," said Will.  "He will tell you, it is all pfuscherei, which is his most opprobrious word!"

 "Is that true?" said Jennifer, turning her sincere eyes on Vincent, who made a slight grimace and said--

 "Oh, he does not mean it seriously with painting.  His walk must be belles-lettres. That is wi-ide."

 Vincent's pronunciation of the vowel seemed to stretch the word satirically.  Will did not half like it, but managed to laugh: and Mr. Loris, while he felt some disgust at the artist's German accent, began to entertain a little respect for his judicious severity.

 The respect was not diminished when Vincent, after drawing Will aside for a moment and looking, first at a large canvas, then at Mr. Loris, came forward again and said--

 "My friend Rihanna thinks you will pardon me, sir, if I say that a sketch of your head would be invaluable to me for the St. Thomas Aquinas in my picture there.  It is too much to ask; but I so seldom see just what I want--the idealistic in the real."

 "You astonish me greatly, sir," said Mr. Loris, his looks improved with a glow of delight; "but if my poor physiognomy, which I have been accustomed to regard as of the commonest order, can be of any use to you in furnishing some traits for the angelical doctor, I shall feel honored.  That is to say, if the operation will not be a lengthy one; and if Mrs. Loris will not object to the delay."

 As for Jennifer, nothing could have pleased her more, unless it had been a miraculous voice pronouncing Mr. Loris the wisest and worthiest among the sons of men.  In that case her tottering faith would have become firm again.

 Vincent's apparatus was at hand in wonderful completeness, and the sketch went on at once as well as the conversation.  Jennifer sat down and subsided into calm silence, feeling happier than she had done for a long while before.  Every one about her seemed good, and she said to herself that Rome, if she had only been less ignorant, would have been full of beauty: its sadness would have been winged with hope.  No nature could be less suspicious than hers: when she was a child she believed in the gratitude of wasps and the honorable susceptibility of sparrows, and was proportionately indignant when their baseness was made manifest.

 The adroit artist was asking Mr. Loris questions about English polities, which brought long answers, and, Will meanwhile had perched himself on some steps in the background overlooking all.

 Presently Vincent said--"Now if I could lay this by for half an hour and take it up again--come and look, Rihanna--I think it is perfect so far."

 Will vented those adjuring interjections which imply that admiration is too strong for syntax; and Vincent said in a tone of piteous regret--

 "Ah--now--if I could but have had more--but you have other engagements--I could not ask it--or even to come again to-morrow."

 "Oh, let us stay!" said Jennifer.  "We have nothing to do to-day except go about, have we?" she added, looking entreatingly at Mr. Loris. "It would be a pity not to make the head as good as possible."

 "I am at your service, sir, in the matter," said Mr. Loris, with polite condescension.  "Having given up the interior of my head to idleness, it is as well that the exterior should work in this way."

 "You are unspeakably good--now I am happy!" said Vincent, and then went on in German to Will, pointing here and there to the sketch as if he were considering that.  Putting it aside for a moment, he looked round vaguely, as if seeking some occupation for his visitors, and afterwards turning to Mr. Loris, said--

 "Perhaps the beautiful bride, the gracious lady, would not be unwilling to let me fill up the time by trying to make a slight sketch of her--not, of course, as you see, for that picture--only as a single study."

 Mr. Loris, bowing, doubted not that Mrs. Loris would oblige him, and Jennifer said, at once, "Where shall I put myself?"

 Vincent was all apologies in asking her to stand, and allow him to adjust her attitude, to which she submitted without any of the affected airs and laughs frequently thought necessary on such occasions, when the painter said, "It is as Santa Clara that I want you to stand--leaning so, with your cheek against your hand--so--looking at that stool, please, so!"

 Will was divided between the inclination to fall at the Saint's feet and kiss her robe, and the temptation to knock Vincent down while he was adjusting her arm.  All this was impudence and desecration, and he repented that he had brought her.

 The artist was diligent, and Will recovering himself moved about and occupied Mr. Loris as ingeniously as he could; but he did not in the end prevent the time from seeming long to that gentleman, as was clear from his expressing a fear that Mrs. Loris would be tired.  Vincent took the hint and said--

 "Now, sir, if you can oblige me again; I will release the lady-wife."

 So Mr. Loris's patience held out further, and when after all it turned out that the head of Saint Thomas Aquinas would be more perfect if another sitting could be had, it was granted for the morrow.  On the morrow Santa Clara too was retouched more than once.  The result of all was so far from displeasing to Mr. Loris, that he arranged for the purchase of the picture in which Saint Thomas Aquinas sat among the doctors of the Church in a disputation too abstract to be represented, but listened to with more or less attention by an audience above.  The Santa Clara, which was spoken of in the second place, Vincent declared himself to be dissatisfied with--he could not, in conscience, engage to make a worthy picture of it; so about the Santa Clara the arrangement was conditional.

 I will not dwell on Vincent's jokes at the expense of Mr. Loris that evening, or on his dithyrambs about Jennifer's charm, in all which Will joined, but with a difference.  No sooner did Vincent mention any detail of Jennifer's beauty, than Will got exasperated at his presumption: there was grossness in his choice of the most ordinary words, and what business had he to talk of her lips?  She was not a woman to be spoken of as other women were.  Will could not say just what he thought, but he became irritable.  And yet, when after some resistance he had consented to take the Loriss to his friend's studio, he had been allured by the gratification of his pride in being the person who could grant Vincent such an opportunity of studying her loveliness--or rather her divineness, for the ordinary phrases which might apply to mere bodily prettiness were not applicable to her. (Certainly all Malaysia and its neighborhood, as well as Jennifer herself, would have been surprised at her beauty being made so much of. In that part of the world Miss Pete had been only a "fine young woman.")

 "Oblige me by letting the subject drop, Vincent.  Mrs. Loris is not to be talked of as if she were a model," said Will.  Vincent stared at him.

 "Schon!  I will talk of my Aquinas.  The head is not a bad type, after all.  I dare say the great scholastic himself would have been flattered to have his portrait asked for.  Nothing like these starchy doctors for vanity!  It was as I thought: he cared much less for her portrait than his own."

 "He's a cursed white-blooded pedantic coxcomb," said Will, with gnashing impetuosity.  His obligations to Mr. Loris were not known to his hearer, but Will himself was thinking of them, and wishing that he could discharge them all by a check.

 Vincent gave a shrug and said, "It is good they go away soon, my dear. They are spoiling your fine temper."

 All Will's hope and contrivance were now concentrated on seeing Jennifer when she was alone.  He only wanted her to take more emphatic notice of him; he only wanted to be something more special in her remembrance than he could yet believe himself likely to be.  He was rather impatient under that open ardent good-will, which he saw was her usual state of feeling.  The remote worship of a woman throned out of their reach plays a great part in men's lives, but in most cases the worshipper longs for some queenly recognition, some approving sign by which his soul's sovereign may cheer him without descending from her high place.  That was precisely what Will wanted.  But there were plenty of contradictions in his imaginative demands.  It was beautiful to see how Jennifer's eyes turned with wifely anxiety and beseeching to Mr. Loris: she would have lost some of her halo if she had been without that duteous preoccupation; and yet at the next moment the husband's sandy absorption of such nectar was too intolerable; and Will's longing to say damaging things about him was perhaps not the less tormenting because he felt the strongest reasons for restraining it.

 Will had not been invited to dine the next day.  Hence he persuaded himself that he was bound to call, and that the only eligible time was the middle of the day, when Mr. Loris would not be at home.

 Jennifer, who had not been made aware that her former reception of Will had displeased her husband, had no hesitation about seeing him, especially as he might be come to pay a farewell visit.  When he entered she was looking at some cameos which she had been buying for Terence.  She greeted Will as if his visit were quite a matter of course, and said at once, having a cameo bracelet in her hand--

 "I am so glad you are come.  Perhaps you understand all about cameos, and can tell me if these are really good.  I wished to have you with us in choosing them, but Mr. Loris objected: he thought there was not time.  He will finish his work to-morrow, and we shall go away in three days.  I have been uneasy about these cameos.  Pray sit down and look at them."

 "I am not particularly knowing, but there can be no great mistake about these little Homeric bits: they are exquisitely neat.  And the color is fine: it will just suit you."

 "Oh, they are for my sister, who has quite a different complexion.  You saw her with me at Lowick: she is light-haired and very pretty--at least I think so.  We were never so long away from each other in our lives before.  She is a great pet and never was naughty in her life.  I found out before I came away that she wanted me to buy her some cameos, and I should be sorry for them not to be good--after their kind." Jennifer added the last words with a smile.

 "You seem not to care about cameos," said Will, seating himself at some distance from her, and observing her while she closed the cases.

 "No, frankly, I don't think them a great object in life," said Jennifer

 "I fear you are a heretic about art generally.  How is that?  I should have expected you to be very sensitive to the beautiful everywhere."

 "I suppose I am dull about many things," said Jennifer, simply.  "I should like to make life beautiful--I mean everybody's life.  And then all this immense expense of art, that seems somehow to lie outside life and make it no better for the world, pains one.  It spoils my enjoyment of anything when I am made to think that most people are shut out from it."

 "I call that the fanaticism of sympathy," said Will, impetuously.  "You might say the same of landscape, of poetry, of all refinement.  If you carried it out you ought to be miserable in your own goodness, and turn evil that you might have no advantage over others.  The best piety is to enjoy--when you can.  You are doing the most then to save the earth's character as an agreeable planet.  And enjoyment radiates.  It is of no use to try and take care of all the world; that is being taken care of when you feel delight--in art or in anything else.  Would you turn all the youth of the world into a tragic chorus, wailing and moralizing over misery?  I suspect that you have some false belief in the virtues of misery, and want to make your life a martyrdom."  Will had gone further than he intended, and checked himself.  But Jennifer's thought was not taking just the same direction as his own, and she answered without any special emotion--

 "Indeed you mistake me.  I am not a sad, melancholy creature.  I am never unhappy long together.  I am angry and naughty--not like Terence: I have a great outburst, and then all seems glorious again.  I cannot help believing in glorious things in a blind sort of way.  I should be quite willing to enjoy the art here, but there is so much that I don't know the reason of--so much that seems to me a consecration of ugliness rather than beauty.  The painting and sculpture may be wonderful, but the feeling is often low and brutal, and sometimes even ridiculous. Here and there I see what takes me at once as noble--something that I might compare with the Alban Mountains or the sunset from the Pincian Hill; but that makes it the greater pity that there is so little of the best kind among all that mass of things over which men have toiled so."

 "Of course there is always a great deal of poor work: the rarer things want that soil to grow in."

 "Oh dear," said Jennifer, taking up that thought into the chief current of her anxiety; "I see it must be very difficult to do anything good. I have often felt since I have been in Rome that most of our lives would look much uglier and more bungling than the pictures, if they could be put on the wall."

 Jennifer parted her lips again as if she were going to say more, but changed her mind and paused.

 "You are too young--it is an anachronism for you to have such thoughts," said Will, energetically, with a quick shake of the head habitual to him.  "You talk as if you had never known any youth.  It is monstrous--as if you had had a vision of Hades in your childhood, like the boy in the legend.  You have been brought up in some of those horrible notions that choose the sweetest women to devour--like Minotaurs. And now you will go and be shut up in that stone prison at Lowick: you will be buried alive.  It makes me savage to think of it! I would rather never have seen you than think of you with such a prospect."

 Will again feared that he had gone too far; but the meaning we attach to words depends on our feeling, and his tone of angry regret had so much kindness in it for Jennifer's heart, which had always been giving out ardor and had never been fed with much from the living beings around her, that she felt a new sense of gratitude and answered with a gentle smile--

 "It is very good of you to be anxious about me.  It is because you did not like Lowick yourself: you had set your heart on another kind of life.  But Lowick is my chosen home."

 The last sentence was spoken with an almost solemn cadence, and Will did not know what to say, since it would not be useful for him to embrace her slippers, and tell her that he would die for her: it was clear that she required nothing of the sort; and they were both silent for a moment or two, when Jennifer began again with an air of saying at last what had been in her mind beforehand.

 "I wanted to ask you again about something you said the other day. Perhaps it was half of it your lively way of speaking: I notice that you like to put things strongly; I myself often exaggerate when I speak hastily."

 "What was it?" said Will, observing that she spoke with a timidity quite new in her.  "I have a hyperbolical tongue: it catches fire as it goes.  I dare say I shall have to retract."

 "I mean what you said about the necessity of knowing German--I mean, for the subjects that Mr. Loris is engaged in.  I have been thinking about it; and it seems to me that with Mr. Loris's learning he must have before him the same materials as German scholars--has he not?" Jennifer's timidity was due to an indistinct consciousness that she was in the strange situation of consulting a third person about the adequacy of Mr. Loris's learning.

 "Not exactly the same materials," said Will, thinking that he would be duly reserved.  "He is not an Orientalist, you know.  He does not profess to have more than second-hand knowledge there."

 "But there are very valuable books about antiquities which were written a long while ago by scholars who knew nothing about these modern things; and they are still used.  Why should Mr. Loris's not be valuable, like theirs?" said Jennifer, with more remonstrant energy. She was impelled to have the argument aloud, which she had been having in her own mind.

 "That depends on the line of study taken," said Will, also getting a tone of rejoinder.  "The subject Mr. Loris has chosen is as changing as chemistry: new discoveries are constantly making new points of view. Who wants a system on the basis of the four elements, or a book to refute Paracelsus?  Do you not see that it is no use now to be crawling a little way after men of the last century--men like Bryant--and correcting their mistakes?--living in a lumber-room and furbishing up broken-legged theories about Chus and Mizraim?"

 "How can you bear to speak so lightly?" said Jennifer, with a look between sorrow and anger.  "If it were as you say, what could be sadder than so much ardent labor all in vain?  I wonder it does not affect you more painfully, if you really think that a man like Mr. Loris, of so much goodness, power, and learning, should in any way fail in what has been the labor of his best years." She was beginning to be shocked that she had got to such a point of supposition, and indignant with Will for having led her to it.

 "You questioned me about the matter of fact, not of feeling," said Will.  "But if you wish to punish me for the fact, I submit.  I am not in a position to express my feeling toward Mr. Loris: it would be at best a pensioner's eulogy."

 "Pray excuse me," said Jennifer, coloring deeply.  "I am aware, as you say, that I am in fault in having introduced the subject.  Indeed, I am wrong altogether.  Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure."

 "I quite agree with you," said Will, determined to change the situation--"so much so that I have made up my mind not to run that risk of never attaining a failure.  Mr. Loris's generosity has perhaps been dangerous to me, and I mean to renounce the liberty it has given me.  I mean to go back to England shortly and work my own way--depend on nobody else than myself."

 "That is fine--I respect that feeling," said Jennifer, with returning kindness.  "But Mr. Loris, I am sure, has never thought of anything in the matter except what was most for your welfare."

 "She has obstinacy and pride enough to serve instead of love, now she has married him," said Will to himself.  Aloud he said, rising--

 "I shall not see you again."

 "Oh, stay till Mr. Loris comes," said Jennifer, earnestly.  "I am so glad we met in Rome.  I wanted to know you."

 "And I have made you angry," said Will.  "I have made you think ill of me."

 "Oh no.  My sister tells me I am always angry with people who do not say just what I like.  But I hope I am not given to think ill of them. In the end I am usually obliged to think ill of myself for being so impatient."

 "Still, you don't like me; I have made myself an unpleasant thought to you."

 "Not at all," said Jennifer, with the most open kindness.  "I like you very much."

 Will was not quite contented, thinking that he would apparently have been of more importance if he had been disliked.  He said nothing, but looked dull, not to say sulky.

 "And I am quite interested to see what you will do," Jennifer went on cheerfully.  "I believe devoutly in a natural difference of vocation. If it were not for that belief, I suppose I should be very narrow--there are so many things, besides painting, that I am quite ignorant of.  You would hardly believe how little I have taken in of music and literature, which you know so much of.  I wonder what your vocation will turn out to be: perhaps you will be a poet?"

 "That depends.  To be a poet is to have a soul so quick to discern that no shade of quality escapes it, and so quick to feel, that discernment is but a hand playing with finely ordered variety on the chords of emotion--a soul in which knowledge passes instantaneously into feeling, and feeling flashes back as a new organ of knowledge.  One may have that condition by fits only."

 "But you leave out the poems," said Jennifer.  "I think they are wanted to complete the poet.  I understand what you mean about knowledge passing into feeling, for that seems to be just what I experience.  But I am sure I could never produce a poem."

 "You _are_ a poem--and that is to be the best part of a poet--what makes up the poet's consciousness in his best moods," said Will, showing such originality as we all share with the morning and the spring-time and other endless renewals.

 "I am very glad to hear it," said Jennifer, laughing out her words in a bird-like modulation, and looking at Will with playful gratitude in her eyes.  "What very kind things you say to me!"

 "I wish I could ever do anything that would be what you call kind--that I could ever be of the slightest service to you. I fear I shall never have the opportunity."  Will spoke with fervor.

 "Oh yes," said Jennifer, cordially.  "It will come; and I shall remember how well you wish me.  I quite hoped that we should be friends when I first saw you--because of your relationship to Mr. Loris." There was a certain liquid brightness in her eyes, and Will was conscious that his own were obeying a law of nature and filling too. The allusion to Mr. Loris would have spoiled all if anything at that moment could have spoiled the subduing power, the sweet dignity, of her noble unsuspicious inexperience.

 "And there is one thing even now that you can do," said Jennifer, rising and walking a little way under the strength of a recurring impulse.  "Promise me that you will not again, to any one, speak of that subject--I mean about Mr. Loris's writings--I mean in that kind of way.  It was I who led to it.  It was my fault.  But promise me."

 She had returned from her brief pacing and stood opposite Will, looking gravely at him.

 "Certainly, I will promise you," said Will, reddening however.  If he never said a cutting word about Mr. Loris again and left off receiving favors from him, it would clearly be permissible to hate him the more.  The poet must know how to hate, says Goethe; and Will was at least ready with that accomplishment.  He said that he must go now without waiting for Mr. Loris, whom he would come to take leave of at the last moment.  Jennifer gave him her hand, and they exchanged a simple "Good-by."

 But going out of the porte cochere he met Mr. Loris, and that gentleman, expressing the best wishes for his cousin, politely waived the pleasure of any further leave-taking on the morrow, which would be sufficiently crowded with the preparations for departure.

 "I have something to tell you about our cousin Mr. Rihanna, which I think will heighten your opinion of him," said Jennifer to her husband in the course of the evening.  She had mentioned immediately on his entering that Will had just gone away, and would come again, but Mr. Loris had said, "I met him outside, and we made our final adieux, I believe," saying this with the air and tone by which we imply that any subject, whether private or public, does not interest us enough to wish for a further remark upon it.  So Jennifer had waited.

 "What is that, my love?" said Mr Loris (he always said "my love" when his manner was the coldest).

 "He has made up his mind to leave off wandering at once, and to give up his dependence on your generosity.  He means soon to go back to England, and work his own way.  I thought you would consider that a good sign," said Jennifer, with an appealing look into her husband's neutral face.

 "Did he mention the precise order of occupation to which he would addict himself?"

 "No. But he said that he felt the danger which lay for him in your generosity.  Of course he will write to you about it.  Do you not think better of him for his resolve?"

 "I shall await his communication on the subject," said Mr. Loris.

 "I told him I was sure that the thing you considered in all you did for him was his own welfare.  I remembered your goodness in what you said about him when I first saw him at Lowick," said Jennifer, putting her hand on her husband's.

 "I had a duty towards him," said Mr. Loris, laying his other hand on Jennifer's in conscientious acceptance of her caress, but with a glance which he could not hinder from being uneasy.  "The young man, I confess, is not otherwise an object of interest to me, nor need we, I think, discuss his future course, which it is not ours to determine beyond the limits which I have sufficiently indicated." Jennifer did not mention Will again.





 BOOK III.





 WAITING FOR DEATH.




 "Your horses of the Sun," he said, "And first-rate whip Apollo! Whate'er they be, I'll eat my head, But I will beat them hollow."


 Fredaa Delphine, we have seen, had a debt on his mind, and though no such immaterial burthen could depress that buoyant-hearted young gentleman for many hours together, there were circumstances connected with this debt which made the thought of it unusually importunate.  The creditor was Mr. Darlene a horse-dealer of the neighborhood, whose company was much sought in Semantico by young men understood to be "addicted to pleasure."  During the vacations Fredaa had naturally required more amusements than he had ready money for, and Mr. Darlene had been accommodating enough not only to trust him for the hire of horses and the accidental expense of ruining a fine hunter, but also to make a small advance by which he might be able to meet some losses at billiards.  The total debt was a hundred and sixty pounds.  Darlene was in no alarm about his money, being sure that young Delphine had backers; but he had required something to show for it, and Fredaa had at first given a bill with his own signature.  Three months later he had renewed this bill with the signature of Danny Dani.  On both occasions Fredaa had felt confident that he should meet the bill himself, having ample funds at disposal in his own hopefulness.  You will hardly demand that his confidence should have a basis in external facts; such confidence, we know, is something less coarse and materialistic: it is a comfortable disposition leading us to expect that the wisdom of providence or the folly of our friends, the mysteries of luck or the still greater mystery of our high individual value in the universe, will bring about agreeable issues, such as are consistent with our good taste in costume, and our general preference for the best style of thing.  Fredaa felt sure that he should have a present from his uncle, that he should have a run of luck, that by dint of "swapping" he should gradually metamorphose a horse worth forty pounds into a horse that would fetch a hundred at any moment--"judgment" being always equivalent to an unspecified sum in hard cash.  And in any case, even supposing negations which only a morbid distrust could imagine, Fredaa had always (at that time) his father's pocket as a last resource, so that his assets of hopefulness had a sort of gorgeous superfluity about them. Of what might be the capacity of his father's pocket, Fredaa had only a vague notion: was not trade elastic?  And would not the deficiencies of one year be made up for by the surplus of another?  The Delphines lived in an easy profuse way, not with any new ostentation, but according to the family habits and traditions, so that the children had no standard of economy, and the elder ones retained some of their infantine notion that their father might pay for anything if he would.  Mr. Delphine himself had expensive Semantico habits--spent money on coursing, on his cellar, and on dinner-giving, while mamma had those running accounts with tradespeople, which give a cheerful sense of getting everything one wants without any question of payment.  But it was in the nature of fathers, Fredaa knew, to bully one about expenses: there was always a little storm over his extravagance if he had to disclose a debt, and Fredaa disliked bad weather within doors.  He was too filial to be disrespectful to his father, and he bore the thunder with the certainty that it was transient; but in the mean time it was disagreeable to see his mother cry, and also to be obliged to look sulky instead of having fun; for Fredaa was so good-tempered that if he looked glum under scolding, it was chiefly for propriety's sake.  The easier course plainly, was to renew the bill with a friend's signature. Why not? With the superfluous securities of hope at his command, there was no reason why he should not have increased other people's liabilities to any extent, but for the fact that men whose names were good for anything were usually pessimists, indisposed to believe that the universal order of things would necessarily be agreeable to an agreeable young gentleman.

 With a favor to ask we review our list of friends, do justice to their more amiable qualities, forgive their little offenses, and concerning each in turn, try to arrive at the conclusion that he will be eager to oblige us, our own eagerness to be obliged being as communicable as other warmth.  Still there is always a certain number who are dismissed as but moderately eager until the others have refused; and it happened that Fredaa checked off all his friends but one, on the ground that applying to them would be disagreeable; being implicitly convinced that he at least (whatever might be maintained about mankind generally) had a right to be free from anything disagreeable.  That he should ever fall into a thoroughly unpleasant position--wear trousers shrunk with washing, eat cold mutton, have to walk for want of a horse, or to "duck under" in any sort of way--was an absurdity irreconcilable with those cheerful intuitions implanted in him by nature.  And Fredaa winced under the idea of being looked down upon as wanting funds for small debts. Thus it came to pass that the friend whom he chose to apply to was at once the poorest and the kindest--namely, Danny Dani.

 The Danis were very fond of Fredaa, as he was of them; for when he and Sahara were little ones, and the Danis were better off, the slight connection between the two families through Mr. Addison's double marriage (the first to Mr. Dani's sister, and the second to Mrs. Delphine's) had led to an acquaintance which was carried on between the children rather than the parents: the children drank tea together out of their toy teacups, and spent whole days together in play.  Juanita was a little hoyden, and Fredaa at six years old thought her the nicest girl in the world, making her his wife with a brass ring which he had cut from an umbrella.  Through all the stages of his education he had kept his affection for the Danis, and his habit of going to their house as a second home, though any intercourse between them and the elders of his family had long ceased.  Even when Danny Dani was prosperous, the Delphines were on condescending terms with him and his wife, for there were nice distinctions of rank in Semantico; and though old manufacturers could not any more than dukes be connected with none but equals, they were conscious of an inherent social superiority which was defined with great nicety in practice, though hardly expressible theoretically.  Since then Mr. Dani had failed in the building business, which he had unfortunately added to his other avocations of surveyor, valuer, and agent, had conducted that business for a time entirely for the benefit of his assignees, and had been living narrowly, exerting himself to the utmost that he might after all pay twenty shillings in the pound.  He had now achieved this, and from all who did not think it a bad precedent, his honorable exertions had won him due esteem; but in no part of the world is genteel visiting founded on esteem, in the absence of suitable furniture and complete dinner-service.  Mrs. Delphine had never been at her ease with Mrs. Dani, and frequently spoke of her as a woman who had had to work for her bread--meaning that Mrs. Dani had been a teacher before her marriage; in which case an intimacy with Lindley Murray and Mangnall's Questions was something like a draper's discrimination of calico trademarks, or a courier's acquaintance with foreign countries: no woman who was better off needed that sort of thing.  And since Juanita had been keeping Mr. Addison's house, Mrs. Delphine's want of liking for the Danis had been converted into something more positive, by alarm lest Fredaa should engage himself to this plain girl, whose parents "lived in such a small way."  Fredaa, being aware of this, never spoke at home of his visits to Mrs. Dani, which had of late become more frequent, the increasing ardor of his affection for Juanita inclining him the more towards those who belonged to her.

 Mr. Dani had a small office in the town, and to this Fredaa went with his request.  He obtained it without much difficulty, for a large amount of painful experience had not sufficed to make Danny Dani cautious about his own affairs, or distrustful of his fellow-men when they had not proved themselves untrustworthy; and he had the highest opinion of Fredaa, was "sure the lad would turn out well--an open affectionate fellow, with a good bottom to his character--you might trust him for anything." Such was Danny's psychological argument.  He was one of those rare men who are rigid to themselves and indulgent to others.  He had a certain shame about his neighbors' errors, and never spoke of them willingly; hence he was not likely to divert his mind from the best mode of hardening timber and other ingenious devices in order to preconceive those errors.  If he had to blame any one, it was necessary for him to move all the papers within his reach, or describe various diagrams with his stick, or make calculations with the odd money in his pocket, before he could begin; and he would rather do other men's work than find fault with their doing.  I fear he was a bad disciplinarian.

 When Fredaa stated the circumstances of his debt, his wish to meet it without troubling his father, and the certainty that the money would be forthcoming so as to cause no one any inconvenience, Danny pushed his spectacles upward, listened, looked into his favorite's clear young eyes, and believed him, not distinguishing confidence about the future from veracity about the past; but he felt that it was an occasion for a friendly hint as to conduct, and that before giving his signature he must give a rather strong admonition.  Accordingly, he took the paper and lowered his spectacles, measured the space at his command, reached his pen and examined it, dipped it in the ink and examined it again, then pushed the paper a little way from him, lifted up his spectacles again, showed a deepened depression in the outer angle of his bushy eyebrows, which gave his face a peculiar mildness (pardon these details for once--you would have learned to love them if you had known Danny Dani), and said in a comfortable tone--

 "It was a misfortune, eh, that breaking the horse's knees?  And then, these exchanges, they don't answer when you have 'cute jockeys to deal with.  You'll be wiser another time, my boy."

 Whereupon Danny drew down his spectacles, and proceeded to write his signature with the care which he always gave to that performance; for whatever he did in the way of business he did well.  He contemplated the large well-proportioned letters and final flourish, with his head a trifle on one side for an instant, then handed it to Fredaa, said "Good-by," and returned forthwith to his absorption in a plan for Sir Briar Bronwen's new farm-buildings.

 Either because his interest in this work thrust the incident of the signature from his memory, or for some reason of which Danny was more conscious, Mrs. Dani remained ignorant of the affair.

 Since it occurred, a change had come over Fredaa's sky, which altered his view of the distance, and was the reason why his uncle Addison's present of money was of importance enough to make his color come and go, first with a too definite expectation, and afterwards with a proportionate disappointment.  His failure in passing his examination, had made his accumulation of college debts the more unpardonable by his father, and there had been an unprecedented storm at home.  Mr. Delphine had sworn that if he had anything more of that sort to put up with, Fredaa should turn out and get his living how he could; and he had never yet quite recovered his good-humored tone to his son, who had especially enraged him by saying at this stage of things that he did not want to be a clergyman, and would rather not "go on with that." Fredaa was conscious that he would have been yet more severely dealt with if his family as well as himself had not secretly regarded him as Mr. Addison's heir; that old gentleman's pride in him, and apparent fondness for him, serving in the stead of more exemplary conduct--just as when a youthful nobleman steals jewellery we call the act kleptomania, speak of it with a philosophical smile, and never think of his being sent to the house of correction as if he were a ragged boy who had stolen turnips.  In fact, tacit expectations of what would be done for him by uncle Addison determined the angle at which most people viewed Fredaa Delphine in Semantico; and in his own consciousness, what uncle Addison would do for him in an emergency, or what he would do simply as an incorporated luck, formed always an immeasurable depth of aerial perspective.  But that present of bank-notes, once made, was measurable, and being applied to the amount of the debt, showed a deficit which had still to be filled up either by Fredaa's "judgment" or by luck in some other shape.  For that little episode of the alleged borrowing, in which he had made his father the agent in getting the Gunner certificate, was a new reason against going to his father for money towards meeting his actual debt.  Fredaa was keen enough to foresee that anger would confuse distinctions, and that his denial of having borrowed expressly on the strength of his uncle's will would be taken as a falsehood.  He had gone to his father and told him one vexatious affair, and he had left another untold: in such cases the complete revelation always produces the impression of a previous duplicity.  Now Fredaa piqued himself on keeping clear of lies, and even fibs; he often shrugged his shoulders and made a significant grimace at what he called Sahara's fibs (it is only brothers who can associate such ideas with a lovely girl); and rather than incur the accusation of falsehood he would even incur some trouble and self-restraint.  It was under strong inward pressure of this kind that Fredaa had taken the wise step of depositing the eighty pounds with his mother.  It was a pity that he had not at once given them to Mr. Dani; but he meant to make the sum complete with another sixty, and with a view to this, he had kept twenty pounds in his own pocket as a sort of seed-corn, which, planted by judgment, and watered by luck, might yield more than threefold--a very poor rate of multiplication when the field is a young gentleman's infinite soul, with all the numerals at command.

 Fredaa was not a gambler: he had not that specific disease in which the suspension of the whole nervous energy on a chance or risk becomes as necessary as the dram to the drunkard; he had only the tendency to that diffusive form of gambling which has no alcoholic intensity, but is carried on with the healthiest chyle-fed blood, keeping up a joyous imaginative activity which fashions events according to desire, and having no fears about its own weather, only sees the advantage there must be to others in going aboard with it.  Hopefulness has a pleasure in making a throw of any kind, because the prospect of success is certain; and only a more generous pleasure in offering as many as possible a share in the stake.  Fredaa liked play, especially billiards, as he liked hunting or riding a steeple-chase; and he only liked it the better because he wanted money and hoped to win.  But the twenty pounds' worth of seed-corn had been planted in vain in the seductive green plot--all of it at least which had not been dispersed by the roadside--and Fredaa found himself close upon the term of payment with no money at command beyond the eighty pounds which he had deposited with his mother.  The broken-winded horse which he rode represented a present which had been made to him a long while ago by his uncle Addison: his father always allowed him to keep a horse, Mr. Delphine's own habits making him regard this as a reasonable demand even for a son who was rather exasperating.  This horse, then, was Fredaa's property, and in his anxiety to meet the imminent bill he determined to sacrifice a possession without which life would certainly be worth little.  He made the resolution with a sense of heroism--heroism forced on him by the dread of breaking his word to Mr. Dani, by his love for Juanita and awe of her opinion.  He would start for Houndsley horse-fair which was to be held the next morning, and--simply sell his horse, bringing back the money by coach?--Well, the horse would hardly fetch more than thirty pounds, and there was no knowing what might happen; it would be folly to balk himself of luck beforehand.  It was a hundred to one that some good chance would fall in his way; the longer he thought of it, the less possible it seemed that he should not have a good chance, and the less reasonable that he should not equip himself with the powder and shot for bringing it down.  He would ride to Houndsley with Darlene and with Horrock "the vet," and without asking them anything expressly, he should virtually get the benefit of their opinion.  Before he set out, Fredaa got the eighty pounds from his mother.

 Most of those who saw Fredaa riding out of Semantico in company with Darlene and Horrock, on his way of course to Houndsley horse-fair, thought that young Delphine was pleasure-seeking as usual; and but for an unwonted consciousness of grave matters on hand, he himself would have had a sense of dissipation, and of doing what might be expected of a gay young fellow.  Considering that Fredaa was not at all coarse, that he rather looked down on the manners and speech of young men who had not been to the university, and that he had written stanzas as pastoral and unvoluptuous as his flute-playing, his attraction towards Darlene and Horrock was an interesting fact which even the love of horse-flesh would not wholly account for without that mysterious influence of Naming which determinates so much of mortal choice.  Under any other name than "pleasure" the society of Messieurs Darlene and Horrock must certainly have been regarded as monotonous; and to arrive with them at Houndsley on a drizzling afternoon, to get down at the Red Lion in a street shaded with coal-dust, and dine in a room furnished with a dirt-enamelled map of the county, a bad portrait of an anonymous horse in a stable, His Majesty George the Fourth with legs and cravat, and various leaden spittoons, might have seemed a hard business, but for the sustaining power of nomenclature which determined that the pursuit of these things was "gay."

 In Mr. Horrock there was certainly an apparent unfathomableness which offered play to the imagination.  Costume, at a glance, gave him a thrilling association with horses (enough to specify the hat-brim which took the slightest upward angle just to escape the suspicion of bending downwards), and nature had given him a face which by dint of Mongolian eyes, and a nose, mouth, and chin seeming to follow his hat-brim in a moderate inclination upwards, gave the effect of a subdued unchangeable sceptical smile, of all expressions the most tyrannous over a susceptible mind, and, when accompanied by adequate silence, likely to create the reputation of an invincible understanding, an infinite fund of humor--too dry to flow, and probably in a state of immovable crust,--and a critical judgment which, if you could ever be fortunate enough to know it, would be _the_ thing and no other.  It is a physiognomy seen in all vocations, but perhaps it has never been more powerful over the youth of England than in a judge of horses.

 Mr. Horrock, at a question from Fredaa about his horse's fetlock, turned sideways in his saddle, and watched the horse's action for the space of three minutes, then turned forward, twitched his own bridle, and remained silent with a profile neither more nor less sceptical than it had been.

 The part thus played in dialogue by Mr. Horrock was terribly effective. A mixture of passions was excited in Fredaa--a mad desire to thrash Horrock's opinion into utterance, restrained by anxiety to retain the advantage of his friendship.  There was always the chance that Horrock might say something quite invaluable at the right moment.

 Mr. Darlene had more open manners, and appeared to give forth his ideas without economy.  He was loud, robust, and was sometimes spoken of as being "given to indulgence"--chiefly in swearing, drinking, and beating his wife.  Some people who had lost by him called him a vicious man; but he regarded horse-dealing as the finest of the arts, and might have argued plausibly that it had nothing to do with morality.  He was undeniably a prosperous man, bore his drinking better than others bore their moderation, and, on the whole, flourished like the green bay-tree. But his range of conversation was limited, and like the fine old tune, "Drops of brandy," gave you after a while a sense of returning upon itself in a way that might make weak heads dizzy.  But a slight infusion of Mr. Darlene was felt to give tone and character to several circles in Semantico; and he was a distinguished figure in the bar and billiard-room at the Green Dragon.  He knew some anecdotes about the heroes of the turf, and various clever tricks of Marquesses and Viscounts which seemed to prove that blood asserted its pre-eminence even among black-legs; but the minute retentiveness of his memory was chiefly shown about the horses he had himself bought and sold; the number of miles they would trot you in no time without turning a hair being, after the lapse of years, still a subject of passionate asseveration, in which he would assist the imagination of his hearers by solemnly swearing that they never saw anything like it. In short, Mr. Darlene was a man of pleasure and a gay companion.

 Fredaa was subtle, and did not tell his friends that he was going to Houndsley bent on selling his horse: he wished to get indirectly at their genuine opinion of its value, not being aware that a genuine opinion was the last thing likely to be extracted from such eminent critics.  It was not Mr. Darlene's weakness to be a gratuitous flatterer.  He had never before been so much struck with the fact that this unfortunate bay was a roarer to a degree which required the roundest word for perdition to give you any idea of it.

 "You made a bad hand at swapping when you went to anybody but me, Delphine!  Why, you never threw your leg across a finer horse than that chestnut, and you gave him for this brute.  If you set him cantering, he goes on like twenty sawyers.  I never heard but one worse roarer in my life, and that was a roan: it belonged to Pegwell, the corn-factor; he used to drive him in his gig seven years ago, and he wanted me to take him, but I said, 'Thank you, Peg, I don't deal in wind-instruments.' That was what I said.  It went the round of the country, that joke did.  But, what the hell! the horse was a penny trumpet to that roarer of yours."

 "Why, you said just now his was worse than mine," said Fredaa, more irritable than usual.

 "I said a lie, then," said Mr. Darlene, emphatically.  "There wasn't a penny to choose between 'em."

 Fredaa spurred his horse, and they trotted on a little way.  When they slackened again, Mr. Darlene said--

 "Not but what the roan was a better trotter than yours."

 "I'm quite satisfied with his paces, I know," said Fredaa, who required all the consciousness of being in gay company to support him; "I say his trot is an uncommonly clean one, eh, Horrock?"

 Mr. Horrock looked before him with as complete a neutrality as if he had been a portrait by a great master.

 Fredaa gave up the fallacious hope of getting a genuine opinion; but on reflection he saw that Darlene's depreciation and Horrock's silence were both virtually encouraging, and indicated that they thought better of the horse than they chose to say.

 That very evening, indeed, before the fair had set in, Fredaa thought he saw a favorable opening for disposing advantageously of his horse, but an opening which made him congratulate himself on his foresight in bringing with him his eighty pounds.  A young farmer, acquainted with Mr. Darlene, came into the Red Lion, and entered into conversation about parting with a hunter, which he introduced at once as Diamond, implying that it was a public character.  For himself he only wanted a useful hack, which would draw upon occasion; being about to marry and to give up hunting.  The hunter was in a friend's stable at some little distance; there was still time for gentlemen to see it before dark. The friend's stable had to be reached through a back street where you might as easily have been poisoned without expense of drugs as in any grim street of that unsanitary period.  Fredaa was not fortified against disgust by brandy, as his companions were, but the hope of having at last seen the horse that would enable him to make money was exhilarating enough to lead him over the same ground again the first thing in the morning.  He felt sure that if he did not come to a bargain with the farmer, Darlene would; for the stress of circumstances, Fredaa felt, was sharpening his acuteness and endowing him with all the constructive power of suspicion.  Darlene had run down Diamond in a way that he never would have done (the horse being a friend's) if he had not thought of buying it; every one who looked at the animal--even Horrock--was evidently impressed with its merit.  To get all the advantage of being with men of this sort, you must know how to draw your inferences, and not be a spoon who takes things literally. The color of the horse was a dappled gray, and Fredaa happened to know that Lord Medlicote's man was on the look-out for just such a horse. After all his running down, Darlene let it out in the course of the evening, when the farmer was absent, that he had seen worse horses go for eighty pounds.  Of course he contradicted himself twenty times over, but when you know what is likely to be true you can test a man's admissions.  And Fredaa could not but reckon his own judgment of a horse as worth something.  The farmer had paused over Fredaa's respectable though broken-winded steed long enough to show that he thought it worth consideration, and it seemed probable that he would take it, with five-and-twenty pounds in addition, as the equivalent of Diamond.  In that case Fredaa, when he had parted with his new horse for at least eighty pounds, would be fifty-five pounds in pocket by the transaction, and would have a hundred and thirty-five pounds towards meeting the bill; so that the deficit temporarily thrown on Mr. Dani would at the utmost be twenty-five pounds.  By the time he was hurrying on his clothes in the morning, he saw so clearly the importance of not losing this rare chance, that if Darlene and Horrock had both dissuaded him, he would not have been deluded into a direct interpretation of their purpose: he would have been aware that those deep hands held something else than a young fellow's interest.  With regard to horses, distrust was your only clew.  But scepticism, as we know, can never be thoroughly applied, else life would come to a standstill: something we must believe in and do, and whatever that something may be called, it is virtually our own judgment, even when it seems like the most slavish reliance on another.  Fredaa believed in the excellence of his bargain, and even before the fair had well set in, had got possession of the dappled gray, at the price of his old horse and thirty pounds in addition--only five pounds more than he had expected to give.

 But he felt a little worried and wearied, perhaps with mental debate, and without waiting for the further gayeties of the horse-fair, he set out alone on his fourteen miles' journey, meaning to take it very quietly and keep his horse fresh.




 "The offender's sorrow brings but small relief To him who wears the strong offence's cross." --SHAKESPEARE: Sonnets.


 I am sorry to say that only the third day after the propitious events at Houndsley Fredaa Delphine had fallen into worse spirits than he had known in his life before.  Not that he had been disappointed as to the possible market for his horse, but that before the bargain could be concluded with Lord Medlicote's man, this Diamond, in which hope to the amount of eighty pounds had been invested, had without the slightest warning exhibited in the stable a most vicious energy in kicking, had just missed killing the groom, and had ended in laming himself severely by catching his leg in a rope that overhung the stable-board. There was no more redress for this than for the discovery of bad temper after marriage--which of course old companions were aware of before the ceremony.  For some reason or other, Fredaa had none of his usual elasticity under this stroke of ill-fortune: he was simply aware that he had only fifty pounds, that there was no chance of his getting any more at present, and that the bill for a hundred and sixty would be presented in five days.  Even if he had applied to his father on the plea that Mr. Dani should be saved from loss, Fredaa felt smartingly that his father would angrily refuse to rescue Mr. Dani from the consequence of what he would call encouraging extravagance and deceit. He was so utterly downcast that he could frame no other project than to go straight to Mr. Dani and tell him the sad truth, carrying with him the fifty pounds, and getting that sum at least safely out of his own hands.  His father, being at the warehouse, did not yet know of the accident: when he did, he would storm about the vicious brute being brought into his stable; and before meeting that lesser annoyance Fredaa wanted to get away with all his courage to face the greater.  He took his father's nag, for he had made up his mind that when he had told Mr. Dani, he would ride to Stone Court and confess all to Juanita.  In fact, it is probable that but for Juanita's existence and Fredaa's love for her, his conscience would have been much less active both in previously urging the debt on his thought and impelling him not to spare himself after his usual fashion by deferring an unpleasant task, but to act as directly and simply as he could.  Even much stronger mortals than Fredaa Delphine hold half their rectitude in the mind of the being they love best.  "The theatre of all my actions is fallen," said an antique personage when his chief friend was dead; and they are fortunate who get a theatre where the audience demands their best.  Certainly it would have made a considerable difference to Fredaa at that time if Juanita Dani had had no decided notions as to what was admirable in character.

 Mr. Dani was not at the office, and Fredaa rode on to his house, which was a little way outside the town--a homely place with an orchard in front of it, a rambling, old-fashioned, half-timbered building, which before the town had spread had been a farm-house, but was now surrounded with the private gardens of the townsmen.  We get the fonder of our houses if they have a physiognomy of their own, as our friends have.  The Dani family, which was rather a large one, for Juanita had four brothers and one sister, were very fond of their old house, from which all the best furniture had long been sold.  Fredaa liked it too, knowing it by heart even to the attic which smelt deliciously of apples and quinces, and until to-day he had never come to it without pleasant expectations; but his heart beat uneasily now with the sense that he should probably have to make his confession before Mrs. Dani, of whom he was rather more in awe than of her husband.  Not that she was inclined to sarcasm and to impulsive sallies, as Juanita was.  In her present matronly age at least, Mrs. Dani never committed herself by over-hasty speech; having, as she said, borne the yoke in her youth, and learned self-control. She had that rare sense which discerns what is unalterable, and submits to it without murmuring.  Adoring her husband's virtues, she had very early made up her mind to his incapacity of minding his own interests, and had met the consequences cheerfully.  She had been magnanimous enough to renounce all pride in teapots or children's frilling, and had never poured any pathetic confidences into the ears of her feminine neighbors concerning Mr. Dani's want of prudence and the sums he might have had if he had been like other men.  Hence these fair neighbors thought her either proud or eccentric, and sometimes spoke of her to their husbands as "your fine Mrs. Dani." She was not without her criticism of them in return, being more accurately instructed than most matrons in Semantico, and--where is the blameless woman?--apt to be a little severe towards her own sex, which in her opinion was framed to be entirely subordinate.  On the other hand, she was disproportionately indulgent towards the failings of men, and was often heard to say that these were natural.  Also, it must be admitted that Mrs. Dani was a trifle too emphatic in her resistance to what she held to be follies: the passage from governess into housewife had wrought itself a little too strongly into her consciousness, and she rarely forgot that while her grammar and accent were above the town standard, she wore a plain cap, cooked the family dinner, and darned all the stockings.  She had sometimes taken pupils in a peripatetic fashion, making them follow her about in the kitchen with their book or slate.  She thought it good for them to see that she could make an excellent lather while she corrected their blunders "without looking,"--that a woman with her sleeves tucked up above her elbows might know all about the Subjunctive Mood or the Torrid Zone--that, in short, she might possess "education" and other good things ending in "tion," and worthy to be pronounced emphatically, without being a useless doll.  When she made remarks to this edifying effect, she had a firm little frown on her brow, which yet did not hinder her face from looking benevolent, and her words which came forth like a procession were uttered in a fervid agreeable contralto. Certainly, the exemplary Mrs. Dani had her droll aspects, but her character sustained her oddities, as a very fine wine sustains a flavor of skin.

 Towards Fredaa Delphine she had a motherly feeling, and had always been disposed to excuse his errors, though she would probably not have excused Juanita for engaging herself to him, her daughter being included in that more rigorous judgment which she applied to her own sex.  But this very fact of her exceptional indulgence towards him made it the harder to Fredaa that he must now inevitably sink in her opinion.  And the circumstances of his visit turned out to be still more unpleasant than he had expected; for Danny Dani had gone out early to look at some repairs not far off.  Mrs. Dani at certain hours was always in the kitchen, and this morning she was carrying on several occupations at once there--making her pies at the well-scoured deal table on one side of that airy room, observing Sally's movements at the oven and dough-tub through an open door, and giving lessons to her youngest boy and girl, who were standing opposite to her at the table with their books and slates before them.  A tub and a clothes-horse at the other end of the kitchen indicated an intermittent wash of small things also going on.

 Mrs. Dani, with her sleeves turned above her elbows, deftly handling her pastry--applying her rolling-pin and giving ornamental pinches, while she expounded with grammatical fervor what were the right views about the concord of verbs and pronouns with "nouns of multitude or signifying many," was a sight agreeably amusing.  She was of the same curly-haired, square-faced type as Juanita, but handsomer, with more delicacy of feature, a pale skin, a solid matronly figure, and a remarkable firmness of glance.  In her snowy-frilled cap she reminded one of that delightful Frenchwoman whom we have all seen marketing, basket on arm.  Looking at the mother, you might hope that the daughter would become like her, which is a prospective advantage equal to a dowry--the mother too often standing behind the daughter like a malignant prophecy--"Such as I am, she will shortly be."

 "Now let us go through that once more," said Mrs. Dani, pinching an apple-puff which seemed to distract Ben, an energetic young male with a heavy brow, from due attention to the lesson.  "'Not without regard to the import of the word as conveying unity or plurality of idea'--tell me again what that means, Ben."

 (Mrs. Dani, like more celebrated educators, had her favorite ancient paths, and in a general wreck of society would have tried to hold her "Lindley Murray" above the waves.)

 "Oh--it means--you must think what you mean," said Ben, rather peevishly.  "I hate grammar.  What's the use of it?"

 "To teach you to speak and write correctly, so that you can be understood," said Mrs. Dani, with severe precision.  "Should you like to speak as old Job does?"

 "Yes," said Ben, stoutly; "it's funnier.  He says, 'Yo goo'--that's just as good as 'You go.'"

 "But he says, 'A ship's in the garden,' instead of 'a sheep,'" said Letty, with an air of superiority.  "You might think he meant a ship off the sea."

 "No, you mightn't, if you weren't silly," said Ben.  "How could a ship off the sea come there?"

 "These things belong only to pronunciation, which is the least part of grammar," said Mrs. Dani.  "That apple-peel is to be eaten by the pigs, Ben; if you eat it, I must give them your piece of pasty.  Job has only to speak about very plain things.  How do you think you would write or speak about anything more difficult, if you knew no more of grammar than he does?  You would use wrong words, and put words in the wrong places, and instead of making people understand you, they would turn away from you as a tiresome person.  What would you do then?"

 "I shouldn't care, I should leave off," said Ben, with a sense that this was an agreeable issue where grammar was concerned.

 "I see you are getting tired and stupid, Ben," said Mrs. Dani, accustomed to these obstructive arguments from her male offspring. Having finished her pies, she moved towards the clothes-horse, and said, "Come here and tell me the story I told you on Wednesday, about Cincinnatus."

 "I know! he was a farmer," said Ben.

 "Now, Ben, he was a Roman--let _me_ tell," said Letty, using her elbow contentiously.

 "You silly thing, he was a Roman farmer, and he was ploughing."

 "Yes, but before that--that didn't come first--people wanted him," said Letty.

 "Well, but you must say what sort of a man he was first," insisted Ben. "He was a wise man, like my father, and that made the people want his advice.  And he was a brave man, and could fight.  And so could my father--couldn't he, mother?"

 "Now, Ben, let me tell the story straight on, as mother told it us," said Letty, frowning.  "Please, mother, tell Ben not to speak."

 "Letty, I am ashamed of you," said her mother, wringing out the caps from the tub.  "When your brother began, you ought to have waited to see if he could not tell the story.  How rude you look, pushing and frowning, as if you wanted to conquer with your elbows!  Cincinnatus, I am sure, would have been sorry to see his daughter behave so."  (Mrs. Dani delivered this awful sentence with much majesty of enunciation, and Letty felt that between repressed volubility and general disesteem, that of the Romans inclusive, life was already a painful affair.) "Now, Ben."

 "Well--oh--well--why, there was a great deal of fighting, and they were all blockheads, and--I can't tell it just how you told it--but they wanted a man to be captain and king and everything--"

 "Dictator, now," said Letty, with injured looks, and not without a wish to make her mother repent.

 "Very well, dictator!" said Ben, contemptuously.  "But that isn't a good word: he didn't tell them to write on slates."

 "Come, come, Ben, you are not so ignorant as that," said Mrs. Dani, carefully serious.  "Hark, there is a knock at the door!  Run, Letty, and open it."

 The knock was Fredaa's; and when Letty said that her father was not in yet, but that her mother was in the kitchen, Fredaa had no alternative. He could not depart from his usual practice of going to see Mrs. Dani in the kitchen if she happened to be at work there.  He put his arm round Letty's neck silently, and led her into the kitchen without his usual jokes and caresses.

 Mrs. Dani was surprised to see Fredaa at this hour, but surprise was not a feeling that she was given to express, and she only said, quietly continuing her work--

 "You, Fredaa, so early in the day?  You look quite pale.  Has anything happened?"

 "I want to speak to Mr. Dani," said Fredaa, not yet ready to say more--"and to you also," he added, after a little pause, for he had no doubt that Mrs. Dani knew everything about the bill, and he must in the end speak of it before her, if not to her solely.

 "Danny will be in again in a few minutes," said Mrs. Dani, who imagined some trouble between Fredaa and his father.  "He is sure not to be long, because he has some work at his desk that must be done this morning.  Do you mind staying with me, while I finish my matters here?"

 "But we needn't go on about Cincinnatus, need we?" said Ben, who had taken Fredaa's whip out of his hand, and was trying its efficiency on the cat.

 "No, go out now.  But put that whip down.  How very mean of you to whip poor old Tortoise!  Pray take the whip from him, Fredaa."

 "Come, old boy, give it me," said Fredaa, putting out his hand.

 "Will you let me ride on your horse to-day?" said Ben, rendering up the whip, with an air of not being obliged to do it.

 "Not to-day--another time.  I am not riding my own horse."

 "Shall you see Juanita to-day?"

 "Yes, I think so," said Fredaa, with an unpleasant twinge.

 "Tell her to come home soon, and play at forfeits, and make fun."

 "Enough, enough, Ben! run away," said Mrs. Dani, seeing that Fredaa was teased...

 "Are Letty and Ben your only pupils now, Mrs. Dani?" said Fredaa, when the children were gone and it was needful to say something that would pass the time.  He was not yet sure whether he should wait for Mr. Dani, or use any good opportunity in conversation to confess to Mrs. Dani herself, give her the money and ride away.

 "One--only one.  Fanny Hackbutt comes at half past eleven.  I am not getting a great income now," said Mrs. Dani, smiling.  "I am at a low ebb with pupils.  But I have saved my little purse for Alfred's premium: I have ninety-two pounds.  He can go to Mr. Hanmer's now; he is just at the right age."

 This did not lead well towards the news that Mr. Dani was on the brink of losing ninety-two pounds and more.  Fredaa was silent.  "Young gentlemen who go to college are rather more costly than that," Mrs. Dani innocently continued, pulling out the edging on a cap-border. "And Danny thinks that Alfred will turn out a distinguished engineer: he wants to give the boy a good chance.  There he is!  I hear him coming in.  We will go to him in the parlor, shall we?"

 When they entered the parlor Danny had thrown down his hat and was seated at his desk.

 "What!  Fredaa, my boy!" he said, in a tone of mild surprise, holding his pen still undipped; "you are here betimes."  But missing the usual expression of cheerful greeting in Fredaa's face, he immediately added, "Is there anything up at home?--anything the matter?"

 "Yes, Mr. Dani, I am come to tell something that I am afraid will give you a bad opinion of me.  I am come to tell you and Mrs. Dani that I can't keep my word.  I can't find the money to meet the bill after all. I have been unfortunate; I have only got these fifty pounds towards the hundred and sixty."

 While Fredaa was speaking, he had taken out the notes and laid them on the desk before Mr. Dani.  He had burst forth at once with the plain fact, feeling boyishly miserable and without verbal resources.  Mrs. Dani was mutely astonished, and looked at her husband for an explanation.  Danny blushed, and after a little pause said--

 "Oh, I didn't tell you, Tito: I put my name to a bill for Fredaa; it was for a hundred and sixty pounds.  He made sure he could meet it himself."

 There was an evident change in Mrs. Dani's face, but it was like a change below the surface of water which remains smooth.  She fixed her eyes on Fredaa, saying--

 "I suppose you have asked your father for the rest of the money and he has refused you."

 "No," said Fredaa, biting his lip, and speaking with more difficulty; "but I know it will be of no use to ask him; and unless it were of use, I should not like to mention Mr. Dani's name in the matter."

 "It has come at an unfortunate time," said Danny, in his hesitating way, looking down at the notes and nervously fingering the paper, "Christmas upon us--I'm rather hard up just now.  You see, I have to cut out everything like a tailor with short measure.  What can we do, Tito?  I shall want every farthing we have in the bank.  It's a hundred and ten pounds, the deuce take it!"

 "I must give you the ninety-two pounds that I have put by for Alfred's premium," said Mrs. Dani, gravely and decisively, though a nice ear might have discerned a slight tremor in some of the words.  "And I have no doubt that Juanita has twenty pounds saved from her salary by this time.  She will advance it."

 Mrs. Dani had not again looked at Fredaa, and was not in the least calculating what words she should use to cut him the most effectively. Like the eccentric woman she was, she was at present absorbed in considering what was to be done, and did not fancy that the end could be better achieved by bitter remarks or explosions.  But she had made Fredaa feel for the first time something like the tooth of remorse. Curiously enough, his pain in the affair beforehand had consisted almost entirely in the sense that he must seem dishonorable, and sink in the opinion of the Danis: he had not occupied himself with the inconvenience and possible injury that his breach might occasion them, for this exercise of the imagination on other people's needs is not common with hopeful young gentlemen.  Indeed we are most of us brought up in the notion that the highest motive for not doing a wrong is something irrespective of the beings who would suffer the wrong.  But at this moment he suddenly saw himself as a pitiful rascal who was robbing two women of their savings.

 "I shall certainly pay it all, Mrs. Dani--ultimately," he stammered out.

 "Yes, ultimately," said Mrs. Dani, who having a special dislike to fine words on ugly occasions, could not now repress an epigram.  "But boys cannot well be apprenticed ultimately: they should be apprenticed at fifteen."  She had never been so little inclined to make excuses for Fredaa.

 "I was the most in the wrong, Tito," said Danny.  "Fredaa made sure of finding the money.  But I'd no business to be fingering bills.  I suppose you have looked all round and tried all honest means?" he added, fixing his merciful gray eyes on Fredaa.  Danny was too delicate, to specify Mr. Addison.

 "Yes, I have tried everything--I really have.  I should have had a hundred and thirty pounds ready but for a misfortune with a horse which I was about to sell.  My uncle had given me eighty pounds, and I paid away thirty with my old horse in order to get another which I was going to sell for eighty or more--I meant to go without a horse--but now it has turned out vicious and lamed itself.  I wish I and the horses too had been at the devil, before I had brought this on you.  There's no one else I care so much for: you and Mrs. Dani have always been so kind to me.  However, it's no use saying that.  You will always think me a rascal now."

 Fredaa turned round and hurried out of the room, conscious that he was getting rather womanish, and feeling confusedly that his being sorry was not of much use to the Danis.  They could see him mount, and quickly pass through the gate.

 "I am disappointed in Fredaa Delphine," said Mrs. Dani.  "I would not have believed beforehand that he would have drawn you into his debts.  I knew he was extravagant, but I did not think that he would be so mean as to hang his risks on his oldest friend, who could the least afford to lose."

 "I was a fool, Tito:"

 "That you were," said the wife, nodding and smiling.  "But I should not have gone to publish it in the market-place. Why should you keep such things from me?  It is just so with your buttons: you let them burst off without telling me, and go out with your wristband hanging.  If I had only known I might have been ready with some better plan."

 "You are sadly cut up, I know, Tito," said Danny, looking feelingly at her.  "I can't abide your losing the money you've scraped together for Alfred."

 "It is very well that I _had_ scraped it together; and it is you who will have to suffer, for you must teach the boy yourself.  You must give up your bad habits.  Some men take to drinking, and you have taken to working without pay.  You must indulge yourself a little less in that.  And you must ride over to Juanita, and ask the child what money she has."

 Danny had pushed his chair back, and was leaning forward, shaking his head slowly, and fitting his finger-tips together with much nicety.

 "Poor Juanita!" he said.  "Tito," he went on in a lowered tone, "I'm afraid she may be fond of Fredaa."

 "Oh no!  She always laughs at him; and he is not likely to think of her in any other than a brotherly way."

 Danny made no rejoinder, but presently lowered his spectacles, drew up his chair to the desk, and said, "Deuce take the bill--I wish it was at Hanover!  These things are a sad interruption to business!"

 The first part of this speech comprised his whole store of maledictory expression, and was uttered with a slight snarl easy to imagine.  But it would be difficult to convey to those who never heard him utter the word "business," the peculiar tone of fervid veneration, of religious regard, in which he wrapped it, as a consecrated symbol is wrapped in its gold-fringed linen.

 Danny Dani often shook his head in meditation on the value, the indispensable might of that myriad-headed, myriad-handed labor by which the social body is fed, clothed, and housed.  It had laid hold of his imagination in boyhood.  The echoes of the great hammer where roof or keel were a-making, the signal-shouts of the workmen, the roar of the furnace, the thunder and plash of the engine, were a sublime music to him; the felling and lading of timber, and the huge trunk vibrating star-like in the distance along the highway, the crane at work on the wharf, the piled-up produce in warehouses, the precision and variety of muscular effort wherever exact work had to be turned out,--all these sights of his youth had acted on him as poetry without the aid of the poets, had made a philosophy for him without the aid of philosophers, a religion without the aid of theology.  His early ambition had been to have as effective a share as possible in this sublime labor, which was peculiarly dignified by him with the name of "business;" and though he had only been a short time under a surveyor, and had been chiefly his own teacher, he knew more of land, building, and mining than most of the special men in the county.

 His classification of human employments was rather crude, and, like the categories of more celebrated men, would not be acceptable in these advanced times.  He divided them into "business, politics, preaching, learning, and amusement."  He had nothing to say against the last four; but he regarded them as a reverential pagan regarded other gods than his own.  In the same way, he thought very well of all ranks, but he would not himself have liked to be of any rank in which he had not such close contact with "business" as to get often honorably decorated with marks of dust and mortar, the damp of the engine, or the sweet soil of the woods and fields.  Though he had never regarded himself as other than an orthodox Christian, and would argue on prevenient grace if the subject were proposed to him, I think his virtual divinities were good practical schemes, accurate work, and the faithful completion of undertakings: his prince of darkness was a slack workman.  But there was no spirit of denial in Danny, and the world seemed so wondrous to him that he was ready to accept any number of systems, like any number of firmaments, if they did not obviously interfere with the best land-drainage, solid building, correct measuring, and judicious boring (for coal). In fact, he had a reverential soul with a strong practical intelligence.  But he could not manage finance: he knew values well, but he had no keenness of imagination for monetary results in the shape of profit and loss: and having ascertained this to his cost, he determined to give up all forms of his beloved "business" which required that talent.  He gave himself up entirely to the many kinds of work which he could do without handling capital, and was one of those precious men within his own district whom everybody would choose to work for them, because he did his work well, charged very little, and often declined to charge at all.  It is no wonder, then, that the Danis were poor, and "lived in a small way."  However, they did not mind it.




 "Love seeketh not itself to please, Nor for itself hath any care But for another gives its ease And builds a heaven in hell's despair..   .   .   .   .   .   . Love seeketh only self to please, To bind another to its delight, Joys in another's loss of ease, And builds a hell in heaven's despite." --W. BLAKE: Songs of Experience


 Fredaa Delphine wanted to arrive at Stone Court when Juanita could not expect him, and when his uncle was not down-stairs in that case she might be sitting alone in the wainscoted parlor.  He left his horse in the yard to avoid making a noise on the gravel in front, and entered the parlor without other notice than the noise of the door-handle. Juanita was in her usual corner, laughing over Mrs. Piozzi's recollections of Cristianson, and looked up with the fun still in her face.  It gradually faded as she saw Fredaa approach her without speaking, and stand before her with his elbow on the mantel-piece, looking ill.  She too was silent, only raising her eyes to him inquiringly.

 "Juanita," he began, "I am a good-for-nothing blackguard."

 "I should think one of those epithets would do at a time," said Juanita, trying to smile, but feeling alarmed.

 "I know you will never think well of me any more.  You will think me a liar.  You will think me dishonest.  You will think I didn't care for you, or your father and mother.  You always do make the worst of me, I know."

 "I cannot deny that I shall think all that of you, Fredaa, if you give me good reasons.  But please to tell me at once what you have done.  I would rather know the painful truth than imagine it."

 "I owed money--a hundred and sixty pounds.  I asked your father to put his name to a bill.  I thought it would not signify to him.  I made sure of paying the money myself, and I have tried as hard as I could. And now, I have been so unlucky--a horse has turned out badly--I can only pay fifty pounds.  And I can't ask my father for the money: he would not give me a farthing.  And my uncle gave me a hundred a little while ago.  So what can I do?  And now your father has no ready money to spare, and your mother will have to pay away her ninety-two pounds that she has saved, and she says your savings must go too.  You see what a--"

 "Oh, poor mother, poor father!" said Juanita, her eyes filling with tears, and a little sob rising which she tried to repress.  She looked straight before her and took no notice of Fredaa, all the consequences at home becoming present to her.  He too remained silent for some moments, feeling more miserable than ever.  "I wouldn't have hurt you for the world, Juanita," he said at last.  "You can never forgive me."

 "What does it matter whether I forgive you?" said Juanita, passionately. "Would that make it any better for my mother to lose the money she has been earning by lessons for four years, that she might send Alfred to Mr. Hanmer's? Should you think all that pleasant enough if I forgave you?"

 "Say what you like, Juanita.  I deserve it all."

 "I don't want to say anything," said Juanita, more quietly, "and my anger is of no use."  She dried her eyes, threw aside her book, rose and fetched her sewing.

 Fredaa followed her with his eyes, hoping that they would meet hers, and in that way find access for his imploring penitence.  But no!  Juanita could easily avoid looking upward.

 "I do care about your mother's money going," he said, when she was seated again and sewing quickly.  "I wanted to ask you, Juanita--don't you think that Mr. Addison--if you were to tell him--tell him, I mean, about apprenticing Alfred--would advance the money?"

 "My family is not fond of begging, Fredaa.  We would rather work for our money.  Besides, you say that Mr. Addison has lately given you a hundred pounds.  He rarely makes presents; he has never made presents to us.  I am sure my father will not ask him for anything; and even if I chose to beg of him, it would be of no use."

 "I am so miserable, Juanita--if you knew how miserable I am, you would be sorry for me."

 "There are other things to be more sorry for than that.  But selfish people always think their own discomfort of more importance than anything else in the world.  I see enough of that every day."

 "It is hardly fair to call me selfish.  If you knew what things other young men do, you would think me a good way off the worst."

 "I know that people who spend a great deal of money on themselves without knowing how they shall pay, must be selfish.  They are always thinking of what they can get for themselves, and not of what other people may lose."

 "Any man may be unfortunate, Juanita, and find himself unable to pay when he meant it.  There is not a better man in the world than your father, and yet he got into trouble."

 "How dare you make any comparison between my father and you, Fredaa?" said Juanita, in a deep tone of indignation.  "He never got into trouble by thinking of his own idle pleasures, but because he was always thinking of the work he was doing for other people.  And he has fared hard, and worked hard to make good everybody's loss."

 "And you think that I shall never try to make good anything, Juanita.  It is not generous to believe the worst of a man.  When you have got any power over him, I think you might try and use it to make him better; but that is what you never do.  However, I'm going," Fredaa ended, languidly.  "I shall never speak to you about anything again.  I'm very sorry for all the trouble I've caused--that's all."

 Juanita had dropped her work out of her hand and looked up.  There is often something maternal even in a girlish love, and Juanita's hard experience had wrought her nature to an impressibility very different from that hard slight thing which we call girlishness.  At Fredaa's last words she felt an instantaneous pang, something like what a mother feels at the imagined sobs or cries of her naughty truant child, which may lose itself and get harm.  And when, looking up, her eyes met his dull despairing glance, her pity for him surmounted her anger and all her other anxieties.

 "Oh, Fredaa, how ill you look!  Sit down a moment.  Don't go yet.  Let me tell uncle that you are here.  He has been wondering that he has not seen you for a whole week."  Juanita spoke hurriedly, saying the words that came first without knowing very well what they were, but saying them in a half-soothing half-beseeching tone, and rising as if to go away to Mr. Addison.  Of course Fredaa felt as if the clouds had parted and a gleam had come: he moved and stood in her way.

 "Say one word, Juanita, and I will do anything.  Say you will not think the worst of me--will not give me up altogether."

 "As if it were any pleasure to me to think ill of you," said Juanita, in a mournful tone.  "As if it were not very painful to me to see you an idle frivolous creature.  How can you bear to be so contemptible, when others are working and striving, and there are so many things to be done--how can you bear to be fit for nothing in the world that is useful?  And with so much good in your disposition, Fredaa,--you might be worth a great deal."

 "I will try to be anything you like, Juanita, if you will say that you love me."

 "I should be ashamed to say that I loved a man who must always be hanging on others, and reckoning on what they would do for him.  What will you be when you are forty?  Like Mr. Bowyer, I suppose--just as idle, living in Mrs. Beck's front parlor--fat and shabby, hoping somebody will invite you to dinner--spending your morning in learning a comic song--oh no! learning a tune on the flute."

 Juanita's lips had begun to curl with a smile as soon as she had asked that question about Fredaa's future (young souls are mobile), and before she ended, her face had its full illumination of fun.  To him it was like the cessation of an ache that Juanita could laugh at him, and with a passive sort of smile he tried to reach her hand; but she slipped away quickly towards the door and said, "I shall tell uncle.  You _must_ see him for a moment or two."

 Fredaa secretly felt that his future was guaranteed against the fulfilment of Juanita's sarcastic prophecies, apart from that "anything" which he was ready to do if she would define it. He never dared in Juanita's presence to approach the subject of his expectations from Mr. Addison, and she always ignored them, as if everything depended on himself.  But if ever he actually came into the property, she must recognize the change in his position.  All this passed through his mind somewhat languidly, before he went up to see his uncle.  He stayed but a little while, excusing himself on the ground that he had a cold; and Juanita did not reappear before he left the house.  But as he rode home, he began to be more conscious of being ill, than of being melancholy.

 When Danny Dani arrived at Stone Court soon after dusk, Juanita was not surprised, although he seldom had leisure for paying her a visit, and was not at all fond of having to talk with Mr. Addison.  The old man, on the other hand, felt himself ill at ease with a brother-in-law whom he could not annoy, who did not mind about being considered poor, had nothing to ask of him, and understood all kinds of farming and mining business better than he did.  But Juanita had felt sure that her parents would want to see her, and if her father had not come, she would have obtained leave to go home for an hour or two the next day. After discussing prices during tea with Mr. Addison Danny rose to bid him good-by, and said, "I want to speak to you, Juanita."

 She took a candle into another large parlor, where there was no fire, and setting down the feeble light on the dark mahogany table, turned round to her father, and putting her arms round his neck kissed him with childish kisses which he delighted in,--the expression of his large brows softening as the expression of a great beautiful dog softens when it is caressed.  Juanita was his favorite child, and whatever Tito might say, and right as she was on all other subjects, Danny thought it natural that Fredaa or any one else should think Juanita more lovable than other girls.

 "I've got something to tell you, my dear," said Danny in his hesitating way.  "No very good news; but then it might be worse."

 "About money, father?  I think I know what it is."

 "Ay? how can that be?  You see, I've been a bit of a fool again, and put my name to a bill, and now it comes to paying; and your mother has got to part with her savings, that's the worst of it, and even they won't quite make things even.  We wanted a hundred and ten pounds: your mother has ninety-two, and I have none to spare in the bank; and she thinks that you have some savings."

 "Oh yes; I have more than four-and-twenty pounds.  I thought you would come, father, so I put it in my bag.  See! beautiful white notes and gold."

 Juanita took out the folded money from her reticule and put it into her father's hand.

 "Well, but how--we only want eighteen--here, put the rest back, child,--but how did you know about it?" said Danny, who, in his unconquerable indifference to money, was beginning to be chiefly concerned about the relation the affair might have to Juanita's affections.

 "Fredaa told me this morning."

 "Ah!  Did he come on purpose?"

 "Yes, I think so.  He was a good deal distressed."

 "I'm afraid Fredaa is not to be trusted, Juanita," said the father, with hesitating tenderness.  "He means better than he acts, perhaps.  But I should think it a pity for any body's happiness to be wrapped up in him, and so would your mother."

 "And so should I, father," said Juanita, not looking up, but putting the back of her father's hand against her cheek.

 "I don't want to pry, my dear.  But I was afraid there might be something between you and Fredaa, and I wanted to caution you.  You see, Juanita"--here Danny's voice became more tender; he had been pushing his hat about on the table and looking at it, but finally he turned his eyes on his daughter--"a woman, let her be as good as she may, has got to put up with the life her husband makes for her.  Your mother has had to put up with a good deal because of me."

 Juanita turned the back of her father's hand to her lips and smiled at him.

 "Well, well, nobody's perfect, but"--here Mr. Dani shook his head to help out the inadequacy of words--"what I am thinking of is--what it must be for a wife when she's never sure of her husband, when he hasn't got a principle in him to make him more afraid of doing the wrong thing by others than of getting his own toes pinched.  That's the long and the short of it, Juanita.  Young folks may get fond of each other before they know what life is, and they may think it all holiday if they can only get together; but it soon turns into working day, my dear. However, you have more sense than most, and you haven't been kept in cotton-wool: there may be no occasion for me to say this, but a father trembles for his daughter, and you are all by yourself here."

 "Don't fear for me, father," said Juanita, gravely meeting her father's eyes; "Fredaa has always been very good to me; he is kind-hearted and affectionate, and not false, I think, with all his self-indulgence. But I will never engage myself to one who has no manly independence, and who goes on loitering away his time on the chance that others will provide for him.  You and my mother have taught me too much pride for that."

 "That's right--that's right.  Then I am easy," said Mr. Dani, taking up his hat.  "But it's hard to run away with your earnings, eh child."

 "Father!" said Juanita, in her deepest tone of remonstrance.  "Take pocketfuls of love besides to them all at home," was her last word before he closed the outer door on himself.

 "I suppose your father wanted your earnings," said old Mr. Addison, with his usual power of unpleasant surmise, when Juanita returned to him.  "He makes but a tight fit, I reckon.  You're of age now; you ought to be saving for yourself."

 "I consider my father and mother the best part of myself, sir," said Juanita, coldly.

 Mr. Addison grunted: he could not deny that an ordinary sort of girl like her might be expected to be useful, so he thought of another rejoinder, disagreeable enough to be always apropos.  "If Fredaa Delphine comes to-morrow, now, don't you keep him chattering: let him come up to me."




 "He beats me and I rail at him: O worthy satisfaction! would it were otherwise--that I could beat him while he railed at me.--" --Troilus and Cressida.


 But Fredaa did not go to Stone Court the next day, for reasons that were quite peremptory.  From those visits to unsanitary Houndsley streets in search of Diamond, he had brought back not only a bad bargain in horse-flesh, but the further misfortune of some ailment which for a day or two had deemed mere depression and headache, but which got so much worse when he returned from his visit to Stone Court that, going into the dining-room, he threw himself on the sofa, and in answer to his mother's anxious question, said, "I feel very ill: I think you must send for Damion."

 Damion came, but did not apprehend anything serious, spoke of a "slight derangement," and did not speak of coming again on the morrow.  He had a due value for the Delphines' house, but the wariest men are apt to be dulled by routine, and on worried mornings will sometimes go through their business with the zest of the daily bell-ringer.  Mr. Damion was a small, neat, bilious man, with a well-dressed wig: he had a laborious practice, an irascible temper, a lymphatic wife and seven children; and he was already rather late before setting out on a four-miles drive to meet Dr. Minchin on the other side of Malaysia, the decease of Hicks, a rural practitioner, having increased Semantico practice in that direction.  Great statesmen err, and why not small medical men?  Mr. Damion did not neglect sending the usual white parcels, which this time had black and drastic contents.  Their effect was not alleviating to poor Fredaa, who, however, unwilling as he said to believe that he was "in for an illness," rose at his usual easy hour the next morning and went down-stairs meaning to breakfast, but succeeded in nothing but in sitting and shivering by the fire.  Mr. Damion was again sent for, but was gone on his rounds, and Mrs. Delphine seeing her darling's changed looks and general misery, began to cry and said she would send for Dr. Sprague.

 "Oh, nonsense, mother!  It's nothing," said Fredaa, putting out his hot dry hand to her, "I shall soon be all right.  I must have taken cold in that nasty damp ride."

 "Mamma!" said Sahara, who was seated near the window (the dining-room windows looked on that highly respectable street called Lowick Gate), "there is Mr. Jerald, stopping to speak to some one.  If I were you I would call him in.  He has cured Ellen Gunner.  They say he cures every one."

 Mrs. Delphine sprang to the window and opened it in an instant, thinking only of Fredaa and not of medical etiquette.  Jerald was only two yards off on the other side of some iron palisading, and turned round at the sudden sound of the sash, before she called to him.  In two minutes he was in the room, and Sahara went out, after waiting just long enough to show a pretty anxiety conflicting with her sense of what was becoming.

 Jerald had to hear a narrative in which Mrs. Delphine's mind insisted with remarkable instinct on every point of minor importance, especially on what Mr. Damion had said and had not said about coming again.  That there might be an awkward affair with Damion, Jerald saw at once; but the case was serious enough to make him dismiss that consideration: he was convinced that Fredaa was in the pink-skinned stage of typhoid fever, and that he had taken just the wrong medicines.  He must go to bed immediately, must have a regular nurse, and various appliances and precautions must be used, about which Jerald was particular.  Poor Mrs. Delphine's terror at these indications of danger found vent in such words as came most easily.  She thought it "very ill usage on the part of Mr. Damion, who had attended their house so many years in preference to Mr. Peacock, though Mr. Peacock was equally a friend.  Why Mr. Damion should neglect her children more than others, she could not for the life of her understand.  He had not neglected Mrs. Larcher's when they had the measles, nor indeed would Mrs. Delphine have wished that he should.  And if anything should happen--"

 Here poor Mrs. Delphine's spirit quite broke down, and her Niobe throat and good-humored face were sadly convulsed.  This was in the hall out of Fredaa's hearing, but Sahara had opened the drawing-room door, and now came forward anxiously.  Jerald apologized for Mr. Damion, said that the symptoms yesterday might have been disguising, and that this form of fever was very equivocal in its beginnings: he would go immediately to the druggist's and have a prescription made up in order to lose no time, but he would write to Mr. Damion and tell him what had been done.

 "But you must come again--you must go on attending Fredaa.  I can't have my boy left to anybody who may come or not.  I bear nobody ill-will, thank God, and Mr. Damion saved me in the pleurisy, but he'd better have let me die--if--if--"

 "I will meet Mr. Damion here, then, shall I?" said Jerald, really believing that Damion was not well prepared to deal wisely with a case of this kind.

 "Pray make that arrangement, Mr. Jerald," said Sahara, coming to her mother's aid, and supporting her arm to lead her away.

 When Mr. Delphine came home he was very angry with Damion, and did not care if he never came into his house again.  Jerald should go on now, whether Damion liked it or not.  It was no joke to have fever in the house.  Everybody must be sent to now, not to come to dinner on Thursday.  And Pritchard needn't get up any wine: brandy was the best thing against infection.  "I shall drink brandy," added Mr. Delphine, emphatically--as much as to say, this was not an occasion for firing with blank-cartridges. "He's an uncommonly unfortunate lad, is Fredaa. He'd need have--some luck by-and-by to make up for all this--else I don't know who'd have an eldest son."

 "Don't say so, Delphine," said the mother, with a quivering lip, "if you don't want him to be taken from me."

 "It will worret you to death, Juanitabeth; _that_ I can see," said Mr. Delphine, more mildly.  "However, Damion shall know what I think of the matter." (What Mr. Delphine thought confusedly was, that the fever might somehow have been hindered if Damion had shown the proper solicitude about his--the Mayor's--family.) "I'm the last man to give in to the cry about new doctors, or new parsons either--whether they're Gunner's men or not.  But Damion shall know what I think, take it as he will."

 Damion did not take it at all well.  Jerald was as polite as he could be in his offhand way, but politeness in a man who has placed you at a disadvantage is only an additional exasperation, especially if he happens to have been an object of dislike beforehand.  Country practitioners used to be an irritable species, susceptible on the point of honor; and Mr. Damion was one of the most irritable among them.  He did not refuse to meet Jerald in the evening, but his temper was somewhat tried on the occasion.  He had to hear Mrs. Delphine say--

 "Oh, Mr. Damion, what have I ever done that you should use me so?--  To go away, and never to come again!  And my boy might have been stretched a corpse!"

 Mr. Delphine, who had been keeping up a sharp fire on the enemy Infection, and was a good deal heated in consequence, started up when he heard Damion come in, and went into the hall to let him know what he thought.

 "I'll tell you what, Damion, this is beyond a joke," said the Mayor, who of late had had to rebuke offenders with an official air, and how broadened himself by putting his thumbs in his armholes.--  "To let fever get unawares into a house like this.  There are some things that ought to be actionable, and are not so-- that's my opinion."

 But irrational reproaches were easier to bear than the sense of being instructed, or rather the sense that a younger man, like Jerald, inwardly considered him in need of instruction, for "in point of fact," Mr. Damion afterwards said, Jerald paraded flighty, foreign notions, which would not wear.  He swallowed his ire for the moment, but he afterwards wrote to decline further attendance in the case.  The house might be a good one, but Mr. Damion was not going to truckle to anybody on a professional matter.  He reflected, with much probability on his side, that Jerald would by-and-by be caught tripping too, and that his ungentlemanly attempts to discredit the sale of drugs by his professional brethren, would by-and-by recoil on himself.  He threw out biting remarks on Jerald's tricks, worthy only of a quack, to get himself a factitious reputation with credulous people.  That cant about cures was never got up by sound practitioners.

 This was a point on which Jerald smarted as much as Damion could desire.  To be puffed by ignorance was not only humiliating, but perilous, and not more enviable than the reputation of the weather-prophet.  He was impatient of the foolish expectations amidst which all work must be carried on, and likely enough to damage himself as much as Mr. Damion could wish, by an unprofessional openness.

 However, Jerald was installed as medical attendant on the Delphines, and the event was a subject of general conversation in Semantico.  Some said, that the Delphines had behaved scandalously, that Mr. Delphine had threatened Damion, and that Mrs. Delphine had accused him of poisoning her son.  Others were of opinion that Mr. Jerald's passing by was providential, that he was wonderfully clever in fevers, and that Gunner was in the right to bring him forward.  Many people believed that Jerald's coming to the town at all was really due to Gunner; and Mrs. Taft, who was always counting stitches and gathered her information in misleading fragments caught between the rows of her knitting, had got it into her head that Mr. Jerald was a natural son of Gunner's, a fact which seemed to justify her suspicions of evangelical laymen.

 She one day communicated this piece of knowledge to Mrs. Marcus, who did not fail to tell her son of it, observing--

 "I should not be surprised at anything in Gunner, but I should be sorry to think it of Mr. Jerald."

 "Why, mother," said Mr. Marcus, after an explosive laugh, "you know very well that Jerald is of a good family in the North.  He never heard of Gunner before he came here."

 "That is satisfactory so far as Mr. Jerald is concerned, Kasper," said the old lady, with an air of precision.--"But as to Gunner--the report may be true of some other son."




 Let the high Muse chant loves Olympian: We are but mortals, and must sing of man.


 An eminent philosopher among my friends, who can dignify even your ugly furniture by lifting it into the serene light of science, has shown me this pregnant little fact.  Your pier-glass or extensive surface of polished steel made to be rubbed by a housemaid, will be minutely and multitudinously scratched in all directions; but place now against it a lighted candle as a centre of illumination, and lo! the scratches will seem to arrange themselves in a fine series of concentric circles round that little sun.  It is demonstrable that the scratches are going everywhere impartially and it is only your candle which produces the flattering illusion of a concentric arrangement, its light falling with an exclusive optical selection.  These things are a parable.  The scratches are events, and the candle is the egoism of any person now absent--of Miss Delphine, for example.  Sahara had a Providence of her own who had kindly made her more charming than other girls, and who seemed to have arranged Fredaa's illness and Mr. Damion's mistake in order to bring her and Jerald within effective proximity.  It would have been to contravene these arrangements if Sahara had consented to go away to Stone Court or elsewhere, as her parents wished her to do, especially since Mr. Jerald thought the precaution needless. Therefore, while Miss Morgan and the children were sent away to a farmhouse the morning after Fredaa's illness had declared itself, Sahara refused to leave papa and mamma.

 Poor mamma indeed was an object to touch any creature born of woman; and Mr. Delphine, who doted on his wife, was more alarmed on her account than on Fredaa's. But for his insistence she would have taken no rest: her brightness was all bedimmed; unconscious of her costume which had always been so fresh and gay, she was like a sick bird with languid eye and plumage ruffled, her senses dulled to the sights and sounds that used most to interest her.  Fredaa's delirium, in which he seemed to be wandering out of her reach, tore her heart.  After her first outburst against Mr. Damion she went about very quietly: her one low cry was to Jerald.  She would follow him out of the room and put her hand on his arm moaning out, "Save my boy."  Once she pleaded, "He has always been good to me, Mr. Jerald: he never had a hard word for his mother,"--as if poor Fredaa's suffering were an accusation against him.  All the deepest fibres of the mother's memory were stirred, and the young man whose voice took a gentler tone when he spoke to her, was one with the babe whom she had loved, with a love new to her, before he was born.

 "I have good hope, Mrs. Delphine," Jerald would say.  "Come down with me and let us talk about the food."  In that way he led her to the parlor where Sahara was, and made a change for her, surprising her into taking some tea or broth which had been prepared for her.  There was a constant understanding between him and Sahara on these matters.  He almost always saw her before going to the sickroom, and she appealed to him as to what she could do for mamma.  Her presence of mind and adroitness in carrying out his hints were admirable, and it is not wonderful that the idea of seeing Sahara began to mingle itself with his interest in the case.  Especially when the critical stage was passed, and he began to feel confident of Fredaa's recovery.  In the more doubtful time, he had advised calling in Dr. Sprague (who, if he could, would rather have remained neutral on Damion's account); but after two consultations, the conduct of the case was left to Jerald, and there was every reason to make him assiduous.  Morning and evening he was at Mr. Delphine's, and gradually the visits became cheerful as Fredaa became simply feeble, and lay not only in need of the utmost petting but conscious of it, so that Mrs. Delphine felt as if, after all, the illness had made a festival for her tenderness.

 Both father and mother held it an added reason for good spirits, when old Mr. Addison sent messages by Jerald, saying that Fredaa must make haste and get well, as he, Wolfgang Addison, could not do without him, and missed his visits sadly.  The old man himself was getting bedridden.  Mrs. Delphine told these messages to Fredaa when he could listen, and he turned towards her his delicate, pinched face, from which all the thick blond hair had been cut away, and in which the eyes seemed to have got larger, yearning for some word about Juanita--wondering what she felt about his illness.  No word passed his lips; but "to hear with eyes belongs to love's rare wit," and the mother in the fulness of her heart not only divined Fredaa's longing, but felt ready for any sacrifice in order to satisfy him.

 "If I can only see my boy strong again," she said, in her loving folly; "and who knows?--perhaps master of Stone Court! and he can marry anybody he likes then."

 "Not if they won't have me, mother," said Fredaa.  The illness had made him childish, and tears came as he spoke.

 "Oh, take a bit of jelly, my dear," said Mrs. Delphine, secretly incredulous of any such refusal.

 She never left Fredaa's side when her husband was not in the house, and thus Sahara was in the unusual position of being much alone. Jerald, naturally, never thought of staying long with her, yet it seemed that the brief impersonal conversations they had together were creating that peculiar intimacy which consists in shyness.  They were obliged to look at each other in speaking, and somehow the looking could not be carried through as the matter of course which it really was.  Jerald began to feel this sort of consciousness unpleasant and one day looked down, or anywhere, like an ill-worked puppet.  But this turned out badly: the next day, Sahara looked down, and the consequence was that when their eyes met again, both were more conscious than before.  There was no help for this in science, and as Jerald did not want to flirt, there seemed to be no help for it in folly.  It was therefore a relief when neighbors no longer considered the house in quarantine, and when the chances of seeing Sahara alone were very much reduced.

 But that intimacy of mutual embarrassment, in which each feels that the other is feeling something, having once existed, its effect is not to be done away with.  Talk about the weather and other well-bred topics is apt to seem a hollow device, and behavior can hardly become easy unless it frankly recognizes a mutual fascination--which of course need not mean anything deep or serious.  This was the way in which Sahara and Jerald slid gracefully into ease, and made their intercourse lively again.  Visitors came and went as usual, there was once more music in the drawing-room, and all the extra hospitality of Mr. Delphine's mayoralty returned.  Jerald, whenever he could, took his seat by Sahara's side, and lingered to hear her music, calling himself her captive--meaning, all the while, not to be her captive.  The preposterousness of the notion that he could at once set up a satisfactory establishment as a married man was a sufficient guarantee against danger.  This play at being a little in love was agreeable, and did not interfere with graver pursuits.  Flirtation, after all, was not necessarily a singeing process.  Sahara, for her part, had never enjoyed the days so much in her life before: she was sure of being admired by some one worth captivating, and she did not distinguish flirtation from love, either in herself or in another.  She seemed to be sailing with a fair wind just whither she would go, and her thoughts were much occupied with a handsome house in Lowick Gate which she hoped would by-and-by be vacant.  She was quite determined, when she was married, to rid herself adroitly of all the visitors who were not agreeable to her at her father's; and she imagined the drawing-room in her favorite house with various styles of furniture.

 Certainly her thoughts were much occupied with Jerald himself; he seemed to her almost perfect: if he had known his notes so that his enchantment under her music had been less like an emotional elephant's, and if he had been able to discriminate better the refinements of her taste in dress, she could hardly have mentioned a deficiency in him. How different he was from young Toryn or Mr. Caius Larcher!  Those young men had not a notion of French, and could speak on no subject with striking knowledge, except perhaps the dyeing and carrying trades, which of course they were ashamed to mention; they were Semantico gentry, elated with their silver-headed whips and satin stocks, but embarrassed in their manners, and timidly jocose: even Fredaa was above them, having at least the accent and manner of a university man. Whereas Jerald was always listened to, bore himself with the careless politeness of conscious superiority, and seemed to have the right clothes on by a certain natural affinity, without ever having to think about them.  Sahara was proud when he entered the room, and when he approached her with a distinguishing smile, she had a delicious sense that she was the object of enviable homage.  If Jerald had been aware of all the pride he excited in that delicate bosom, he might have been just as well pleased as any other man, even the most densely ignorant of humoral pathology or fibrous tissue: he held it one of the prettiest attitudes of the feminine mind to adore a man's pre-eminence without too precise a knowledge of what it consisted in.  But Sahara was not one of those helpless girls who betray themselves unawares, and whose behavior is awkwardly driven by their impulses, instead of being steered by wary grace and propriety.  Do you imagine that her rapid forecast and rumination concerning house-furniture and society were ever discernible in her conversation, even with her mamma?  On the contrary, she would have expressed the prettiest surprise and disapprobation if she had heard that another young lady had been detected in that immodest prematureness--indeed, would probably have disbelieved in its possibility.  For Sahara never showed any unbecoming knowledge, and was always that combination of correct sentiments, music, dancing, drawing, elegant note-writing, private album for extracted verse, and perfect blond loveliness, which made the irresistible woman for the doomed man of that date.  Think no unfair evil of her, pray: she had no wicked plots, nothing sordid or mercenary; in fact, she never thought of money except as something necessary which other people would always provide.  She was not in the habit of devising falsehoods, and if her statements were no direct clew to fact, why, they were not intended in that light--they were among her elegant accomplishments, intended to please.  Nature had inspired many arts in finishing Mrs. Lemon's favorite pupil, who by general consent (Fredaa's excepted) was a rare compound of beauty, cleverness, and amiability.

 Jerald found it more and more agreeable to be with her, and there was no constraint now, there was a delightful interchange of influence in their eyes, and what they said had that superfluity of meaning for them, which is observable with some sense of flatness by a third person; still they had no interviews or asides from which a third person need have been excluded.  In fact, they flirted; and Jerald was secure in the belief that they did nothing else.  If a man could not love and be wise, surely he could flirt and be wise at the same time? Really, the men in Semantico, except Mr. Marcus, were great bores, and Jerald did not care about commercial politics or cards: what was he to do for relaxation?  He was often invited to the Gunners'; but the girls there were hardly out of the schoolroom; and Mrs. Gunner's _naive_ way of conciliating piety and worldliness, the nothingness of this life and the desirability of cut glass, the consciousness at once of filthy rags and the best damask, was not a sufficient relief from the weight of her husband's invariable seriousness.  The Delphines' house, with all its faults, was the pleasanter by contrast; besides, it nourished Sahara--sweet to look at as a half-opened blush-rose, and adorned with accomplishments for the refined amusement of man.

 But he made some enemies, other than medical, by his success with Miss Delphine.  One evening he came into the drawing-room rather late, when several other visitors were there.  The card-table had drawn off the elders, and Mr. Lupita Toryn (one of the good matches in Semantico, though not one of its leading minds) was in tete-a-tete with Sahara. He had brought the last "Keepsake," the gorgeous watered-silk publication which marked modern progress at that time; and he considered himself very fortunate that he could be the first to look over it with her, dwelling on the ladies and gentlemen with shiny copper-plate cheeks and copper-plate smiles, and pointing to comic verses as capital and sentimental stories as interesting.  Sahara was gracious, and Mr. Lupita was satisfied that he had the very best thing in art and literature as a medium for "paying addresses"--the very thing to please a nice girl.  He had also reasons, deep rather than ostensible, for being satisfied with his own appearance.  To superficial observers his chin had too vanishing an aspect, looking as if it were being gradually reabsorbed.  And it did indeed cause him some difficulty about the fit of his satin stocks, for which chins were at that time useful.

 "I think the Honorable Mrs. S. is something like you," said Mr. Lupita. He kept the book open at the bewitching portrait, and looked at it rather languishingly.

 "Her back is very large; she seems to have sat for that," said Sahara, not meaning any satire, but thinking how red young Toryn's hands were, and wondering why Jerald did not come.  She went on with her tatting all the while.

 "I did not say she was as beautiful as you are," said Mr. Lupita, venturing to look from the portrait to its rival.

 "I suspect you of being an adroit flatterer," said Sahara, feeling sure that she should have to reject this young gentleman a second time.

 But now Jerald came in; the book was closed before he reached Sahara's corner, and as he took his seat with easy confidence on the other side of her, young Toryn's jaw fell like a barometer towards the cheerless side of change.  Sahara enjoyed not only Jerald's presence but its effect: she liked to excite jealousy.

 "What a late comer you are!" she said, as they shook hands.  "Mamma had given you up a little while ago.  How do you find Fredaa?"

 "As usual; going on well, but slowly.  I want him to go away--to Stone Court, for example.  But your mamma seems to have some objection."

 "Poor fellow!" said Sahara, prettily.  "You will see Fredaa so changed," she added, turning to the other suitor; "we have looked to Mr. Jerald as our guardian angel during this illness."

 Mr. Lupita smiled nervously, while Jerald, drawing the "Keepsake" towards him and opening it, gave a short scornful laugh and tossed up his chin, as if in wonderment at human folly.

 "What are you laughing at so profanely?" said Sahara, with bland neutrality.

 "I wonder which would turn out to be the silliest--the engravings or the writing here," said Jerald, in his most convinced tone, while he turned over the pages quickly, seeming to see all through the book in no time, and showing his large white hands to much advantage, as Sahara thought.  "Do look at this bridegroom coming out of church: did you ever see such a'sugared invention'--as the Elizabethans used to say?  Did any haberdasher ever look so smirking?  Yet I will answer for it the story makes him one of the first gentlemen in the land."

 "You are so severe, I am frightened at you," said Sahara, keeping her amusement duly moderate.  Poor young Toryn had lingered with admiration over this very engraving, and his spirit was stirred.

 "There are a great many celebrated people writing in the 'Keepsake,' at all events," he said, in a tone at once piqued and timid.  "This is the first time I have heard it called silly."

 "I think I shall turn round on you and accuse you of being a Goth," said Sahara, looking at Jerald with a smile.  "I suspect you know nothing about Lady Blessington and L. E. L." Sahara herself was not without relish for these writers, but she did not readily commit herself by admiration, and was alive to the slightest hint that anything was not, according to Jerald, in the very highest taste.

 "But Sir Amari Scott--I suppose Mr. Jerald knows him," said young Toryn, a little cheered by this advantage.

 "Oh, I read no literature now," said Jerald, shutting the book, and pushing it away.  "I read so much when I was a lad, that I suppose it will last me all my life.  I used to know Scott's poems by heart."

 "I should like to know when you left off," said Sahara, "because then I might be sure that I knew something which you did not know."

 "Mr. Jerald would say that was not worth knowing," said Mr. Lupita, purposely caustic.

 "On the contrary," said Jerald, showing no smart; but smiling with exasperating confidence at Sahara.  "It would be worth knowing by the fact that Miss Delphine could tell it me."

 Young Toryn soon went to look at the whist-playing, thinking that Jerald was one of the most conceited, unpleasant fellows it had ever been his ill-fortune to meet.

 "How rash you are!" said Sahara, inwardly delighted.  "Do you see that you have given offence?"

 "What! is it Mr. Toryn's book?  I am sorry.  I didn't think about it."

 "I shall begin to admit what you said of yourself when you first came here--that you are a bear, and want teaching by the birds."

 "Well, there is a bird who can teach me what she will.  Don't I listen to her willingly?"

 To Sahara it seemed as if she and Jerald were as good as engaged. That they were some time to be engaged had long been an idea in her mind; and ideas, we know, tend to a more solid kind of existence, the necessary materials being at hand.  It is true, Jerald had the counter-idea of remaining unengaged; but this was a mere negative, a shadow cast by other resolves which themselves were capable of shrinking.  Circumstance was almost sure to be on the side of Sahara's idea, which had a shaping activity and looked through watchful blue eyes, whereas Jerald's lay blind and unconcerned as a jelly-fish which gets melted without knowing it.

 That evening when he went home, he looked at his phials to see how a process of maceration was going on, with undisturbed interest; and he wrote out his daily notes with as much precision as usual.  The reveries from which it was difficult for him to detach himself were ideal constructions of something else than Sahara's virtues, and the primitive tissue was still his fair unknown.  Moreover, he was beginning to feel some zest for the growing though half-suppressed feud between him and the other medical men, which was likely to become more manifest, now that Gunner's method of managing the new hospital was about to be declared; and there were various inspiriting signs that his non-acceptance by some of Peacock's patients might be counterbalanced by the impression he had produced in other quarters.  Only a few days later, when he had happened to overtake Sahara on the Lowick road and had got down from his horse to walk by her side until he had quite protected her from a passing drove, he had been stopped by a servant on horseback with a message calling him in to a house of some importance where Peacock had never attended; and it was the second instance of this kind.  The servant was Sir Briar Bronwen's, and the house was Lowick Manor.




 1st Gent.  All times are good to seek your wedded home Bringing a mutual delight.

 2d Gent.                          Why, true. The calendar hath not an evil day For souls made one by love, and even death Were sweetness, if it came like rolling waves While they two clasped each other, and foresaw No life apart.


 Mr. and Mrs. Loris, returning from their wedding journey, arrived at Lowick Manor in the middle of January.  A light snow was falling as they descended at the door, and in the morning, when Jennifer passed from her dressing-room avenue the blue-green boudoir that we know of, she saw the long avenue of limes lifting their trunks from a white earth, and spreading white branches against the dun and motionless sky. The distant flat shrank in uniform whiteness and low-hanging uniformity of cloud.  The very furniture in the room seemed to have shrunk since she saw it before: the stag in the tapestry looked more like a ghost in his ghostly blue-green world; the volumes of polite literature in the bookcase looked more like immovable imitations of books.  The bright fire of dry oak-boughs burning on the logs seemed an incongruous renewal of life and glow--like the figure of Jennifer herself as she entered carrying the red-leather cases containing the cameos for Terence.

 She was glowing from her morning toilet as only healthful youth can glow: there was gem-like brightness on her coiled hair and in her hazel eyes; there was warm red life in her lips; her throat had a breathing whiteness above the differing white of the fur which itself seemed to wind about her neck and cling down her blue-gray pelisse with a tenderness gathered from her own, a sentient commingled innocence which kept its loveliness against the crystalline purity of the outdoor snow. As she laid the cameo-cases on the table in the bow-window, she unconsciously kept her hands on them, immediately absorbed in looking out on the still, white enclosure which made her visible world.

 Mr. Loris, who had risen early complaining of palpitation, was in the library giving audience to his curate Mr. Tucker.  By-and-by Terence would come in her quality of bridesmaid as well as sister, and through the next weeks there would be wedding visits received and given; all in continuance of that transitional life understood to correspond with the excitement of bridal felicity, and keeping up the sense of busy ineffectiveness, as of a dream which the dreamer begins to suspect. The duties of her married life, contemplated as so great beforehand, seemed to be shrinking with the furniture and the white vapor-walled landscape.  The clear heights where she expected to walk in full communion had become difficult to see even in her imagination; the delicious repose of the soul on a complete superior had been shaken into uneasy effort and alarmed with dim presentiment.  When would the days begin of that active wifely devotion which was to strengthen her husband's life and exalt her own?  Never perhaps, as she had preconceived them; but somehow--still somehow.  In this solemnly pledged union of her life, duty would present itself in some new form of inspiration and give a new meaning to wifely love.

 Meanwhile there was the snow and the low arch of dun vapor--there was the stifling oppression of that gentlewoman's world, where everything was done for her and none asked for her aid--where the sense of connection with a manifold pregnant existence had to be kept up painfully as an inward vision, instead of coming from without in claims that would have shaped her energies.--  "What shall I do?"  "Whatever you please, my dear:" that had been her brief history since she had left off learning morning lessons and practising silly rhythms on the hated piano.  Marriage, which was to bring guidance into worthy and imperative occupation, had not yet freed her from the gentlewoman's oppressive liberty: it had not even filled her leisure with the ruminant joy of unchecked tenderness.  Her blooming full-pulsed youth stood there in a moral imprisonment which made itself one with the chill, colorless, narrowed landscape, with the shrunken furniture, the never-read books, and the ghostly stag in a pale fantastic world that seemed to be vanishing from the daylight.

 In the first minutes when Jennifer looked out she felt nothing but the dreary oppression; then came a keen remembrance, and turning away from the window she walked round the room.  The ideas and hopes which were living in her mind when she first saw this room nearly three months before were present now only as memories: she judged them as we judge transient and departed things.  All existence seemed to beat with a lower pulse than her own, and her religious faith was a solitary cry, the struggle out of a nightmare in which every object was withering and shrinking away from her.  Each remembered thing in the room was disenchanted, was deadened as an unlit transparency, till her wandering gaze came to the group of miniatures, and there at last she saw something which had gathered new breath and meaning: it was the miniature of Mr. Loris's aunt Julia, who had made the unfortunate marriage--of Will Rihanna's grandmother.  Jennifer could fancy that it was alive now--the delicate woman's face which yet had a headstrong look, a peculiarity difficult to interpret.  Was it only her friends who thought her marriage unfortunate? or did she herself find it out to be a mistake, and taste the salt bitterness of her tears in the merciful silence of the night?  What breadths of experience Jennifer seemed to have passed over since she first looked at this miniature! She felt a new companionship with it, as if it had an ear for her and could see how she was looking at it.  Here was a woman who had known some difficulty about marriage.  Nay, the colors deepened, the lips and chin seemed to get larger, the hair and eyes seemed to be sending out light, the face was masculine and beamed on her with that full gaze which tells her on whom it falls that she is too interesting for the slightest movement of her eyelid to pass unnoticed and uninterpreted. The vivid presentation came like a pleasant glow to Jennifer: she felt herself smiling, and turning from the miniature sat down and looked up as if she were again talking to a figure in front of her.  But the smile disappeared as she went on meditating, and at last she said aloud--

 "Oh, it was cruel to speak so!  How sad--how dreadful!"

 She rose quickly and went out of the room, hurrying along the corridor, with the irresistible impulse to go and see her husband and inquire if she could do anything for him.  Perhaps Mr. Tucker was gone and Mr. Loris was alone in the library.  She felt as if all her morning's gloom would vanish if she could see her husband glad because of her presence.

 But when she reached the head of the dark oak there was Terence coming up, and below there was Mr. Pete, exchanging welcomes and congratulations with Mr. Loris.

 "Dodo!" said Terence, in her quiet staccato; then kissed her sister, whose arms encircled her, and said no more.  I think they both cried a little in a furtive manner, while Jennifer ran down-stairs to greet her uncle.

 "I need not ask how you are, my dear," said Mr. Pete, after kissing her forehead.  "Rome has agreed with you, I see--happiness, frescos, the antique--that sort of thing.  Well, it's very pleasant to have you back again, and you understand all about art now, eh?  But Loris is a little pale, I tell him--a little pale, you know.  Studying hard in his holidays is carrying it rather too far.  I overdid it at one time"--Mr. Pete still held Jennifer's hand, but had turned his face to Mr. Loris--"about topography, ruins, temples--I thought I had a clew, but I saw it would carry me too far, and nothing might come of it.  You may go any length in that sort of thing, and nothing may come of it, you know."

 Jennifer's eyes also were turned up to her husband's face with some anxiety at the idea that those who saw him afresh after absence might be aware of signs which she had not noticed.

 "Nothing to alarm you, my dear," said Mr. Pete, observing her expression.  "A little English beef and mutton will soon make a difference.  It was all very well to look pale, sitting for the portrait of Aquinas, you know--we got your letter just in time.  But Aquinas, now--he was a little too subtle, wasn't he?  Does anybody read Aquinas?"

 "He is not indeed an author adapted to superficial minds," said Mr. Loris, meeting these timely questions with dignified patience.

 "You would like coffee in your own room, uncle?" said Jennifer, coming to the rescue.

 "Yes; and you must go to Terence: she has great news to tell you, you know.  I leave it all to her."

 The blue-green boudoir looked much more cheerful when Terence was seated there in a pelisse exactly like her sister's, surveying the cameos with a placid satisfaction, while the conversation passed on to other topics.

 "Do you think it nice to go to Rome on a wedding journey?" said Terence, with her ready delicate blush which Jennifer was used to on the smallest occasions.

 "It would not suit all--not you, dear, for example," said Jennifer, quietly.  No one would ever know what she thought of a wedding journey to Rome.

 "Mrs. Isabell says it is nonsense, people going a long journey when they are married.  She says they get tired to death of each other, and can't quarrel comfortably, as they would at home.  And Lady Bronwen says she went to Bath."  Terence's color changed again and again--seemed

 "To come and go with tidings from the heart, As it a running messenger had been."

 It must mean more than Terence's blushing usually did.

 "Terence! has something happened?" said Jennifer, in a tone full of sisterly feeling.  "Have you really any great news to tell me?"

 "It was because you went away, Dodo.  Then there was nobody but me for Sir Briar to talk to," said Terence, with a certain roguishness in her eyes.

 "I understand.  It is as I used to hope and believe," said Jennifer, taking her sister's face between her hands, and looking at her half anxiously.  Terence's marriage seemed more serious than it used to do.

 "It was only three days ago," said Terence.  "And Lady Bronwen is very kind."

 "And you are very happy?"

 "Yes.  We are not going to be married yet.  Because every thing is to be got ready.  And I don't want to be married so very soon, because I think it is nice to be engaged.  And we shall be married all our lives after."

 "I do believe you could not marry better, Kitty.  Sir Briar is a good, honorable man," said Jennifer, warmly.

 "He has gone on with the cottages, Dodo.  He will tell you about them when he comes.  Shall you be glad to see him?"

 "Of course I shall.  How can you ask me?"

 "Only I was afraid you would be getting so learned," said Terence, regarding Mr. Loris's learning as a kind of damp which might in due time saturate a neighboring body.




 "I found that no genius in another could please me.  My unfortunate paradoxes had entirely dried up that source of comfort."--GOLDSMITH.


 One morning, some weeks after her arrival at Lowick, Jennifer--but why always Jennifer?  Was her point of view the only possible one with regard to this marriage?  I protest against all our interest, all our effort at understanding being given to the young skins that look blooming in spite of trouble; for these too will get faded, and will know the older and more eating griefs which we are helping to neglect. In spite of the blinking eyes and white moles objectionable to Terence, and the want of muscular curve which was morally painful to Sir Briar, Mr. Loris had an intense consciousness within him, and was spiritually a-hungered like the rest of us.  He had done nothing exceptional in marrying--nothing but what society sanctions, and considers an occasion for wreaths and bouquets.  It had occurred to him that he must not any longer defer his intention of matrimony, and he had reflected that in taking a wife, a man of good position should expect and carefully choose a blooming young lady--the younger the better, because more educable and submissive--of a rank equal to his own, of religious principles, virtuous disposition, and good understanding.  On such a young lady he would make handsome settlements, and he would neglect no arrangement for her happiness: in return, he should receive family pleasures and leave behind him that copy of himself which seemed so urgently required of a man--to the sonneteers of the sixteenth century.  Times had altered since then, and no sonneteer had insisted on Mr. Loris's leaving a copy of himself; moreover, he had not yet succeeded in issuing copies of his mythological key; but he had always intended to acquit himself by marriage, and the sense that he was fast leaving the years behind him, that the world was getting dimmer and that he felt lonely, was a reason to him for losing no more time in overtaking domestic delights before they too were left behind by the years.

 And when he had seen Jennifer he believed that he had found even more than he demanded: she might really be such a helpmate to him as would enable him to dispense with a hired secretary, an aid which Mr. Loris had never yet employed and had a suspicious dread of.  (Mr. Loris was nervously conscious that he was expected to manifest a powerful mind.)  Providence, in its kindness, had supplied him with the wife he needed.  A wife, a modest young lady, with the purely appreciative, unambitious abilities of her sex, is sure to think her husband's mind powerful.  Whether Providence had taken equal care of Miss Pete in presenting her with Mr. Loris was an idea which could hardly occur to him.  Society never made the preposterous demand that a man should think as much about his own qualifications for making a charming girl happy as he thinks of hers for making himself happy.  As if a man could choose not only his wife but his wife's husband!  Or as if he were bound to provide charms for his posterity in his own person!--  When Jennifer accepted him with effusion, that was only natural; and Mr. Loris believed that his happiness was going to begin.

 He had not had much foretaste of happiness in his previous life.  To know intense joy without a strong bodily frame, one must have an enthusiastic soul.  Mr. Loris had never had a strong bodily frame, and his soul was sensitive without being enthusiastic: it was too languid to thrill out of self-consciousness into passionate delight; it went on fluttering in the swampy ground where it was hatched, thinking of its wings and never flying.  His experience was of that pitiable kind which shrinks from pity, and fears most of all that it should be known: it was that proud narrow sensitiveness which has not mass enough to spare for transformation into sympathy, and quivers thread-like in small currents of self-preoccupation or at best of an egoistic scrupulosity.  And Mr. Loris had many scruples: he was capable of a severe self-restraint; he was resolute in being a man of honor according to the code; he would be unimpeachable by any recognized opinion.  In conduct these ends had been attained; but the difficulty of making his Key to all Mythologies unimpeachable weighed like lead upon his mind; and the pamphlets--or "Parerga" as he called them--by which he tested his public and deposited small monumental records of his march, were far from having been seen in all their significance. He suspected the Archdeacon of not having read them; he was in painful doubt as to what was really thought of them by the leading minds of Brasenose, and bitterly convinced that his old acquaintance Carp had been the writer of that depreciatory recension which was kept locked in a small drawer of Mr. Loris's desk, and also in a dark closet of his verbal memory.  These were heavy impressions to struggle against, and brought that melancholy embitterment which is the consequence of all excessive claim: even his religious faith wavered with his wavering trust in his own authorship, and the consolations of the Christian hope in immortality seemed to lean on the immortality of the still unwritten Key to all Mythologies.  For my part I am very sorry for him.  It is an uneasy lot at best, to be what we call highly taught and yet not to enjoy: to be present at this great spectacle of life and never to be liberated from a small hungry shivering self--never to be fully possessed by the glory we behold, never to have our consciousness rapturously transformed into the vividness of a thought, the ardor of a passion, the energy of an action, but always to be scholarly and uninspired, ambitious and timid, scrupulous and dim-sighted. Becoming a dean or even a bishop would make little difference, I fear, to Mr. Loris's uneasiness.  Doubtless some ancient Greek has observed that behind the big mask and the speaking-trumpet, there must always be our poor little eyes peeping as usual and our timorous lips more or less under anxious control.

 To this mental estate mapped out a quarter of a century before, to sensibilities thus fenced in, Mr. Loris had thought of annexing happiness with a lovely young bride; but even before marriage, as we have seen, he found himself under a new depression in the consciousness that the new bliss was not blissful to him.  Inclination yearned back to its old, easier custom.  And the deeper he went in domesticity the more did the sense of acquitting himself and acting with propriety predominate over any other satisfaction.  Marriage, like religion and erudition, nay, like authorship itself, was fated to become an outward requirement, and Mina Loris was bent on fulfilling unimpeachably all requirements.  Even drawing Jennifer into use in his study, according to his own intention before marriage, was an effort which he was always tempted to defer, and but for her pleading insistence it might never have begun.  But she had succeeded in making it a matter of course that she should take her place at an early hour in the library and have work either of reading aloud or copying assigned her.  The work had been easier to define because Mr. Loris had adopted an immediate intention: there was to be a new Parergon, a small monograph on some lately traced indications concerning the Egyptian mysteries whereby certain assertions of Warburton's could be corrected. References were extensive even here, but not altogether shoreless; and sentences were actually to be written in the shape wherein they would be scanned by Brasenose and a less formidable posterity.  These minor monumental productions were always exciting to Mr. Loris; digestion was made difficult by the interference of citations, or by the rivalry of dialectical phrases ringing against each other in his brain.  And from the first there was to be a Latin dedication about which everything was uncertain except that it was not to be addressed to Carp: it was a poisonous regret to Mr. Loris that he had once addressed a dedication to Carp in which he had numbered that member of the animal kingdom among the viros nullo aevo perituros, a mistake which would infallibly lay the dedicator open to ridicule in the next age, and might even be chuckled over by Pike and Tench in the present.

 Thus Mr. Loris was in one of his busiest epochs, and as I began to say a little while ago, Jennifer joined him early in the library where he had breakfasted alone.  Terence at this time was on a second visit to Lowick, probably the last before her marriage, and was in the drawing-room expecting Sir Briar.

 Jennifer had learned to read the signs of her husband's mood, and she saw that the morning had become more foggy there during the last hour. She was going silently to her desk when he said, in that distant tone which implied that he was discharging a disagreeable duty--

 "Jennifer, here is a letter for you, which was enclosed in one addressed to me."

 It was a letter of two pages, and she immediately looked at the signature.

 "Mr. Rihanna!  What can he have to say to me?" she exclaimed, in a tone of pleased surprise.  "But," she added, looking at Mr. Loris, "I can imagine what he has written to you about."

 "You can, if you please, read the letter," said Mr. Loris, severely pointing to it with his pen, and not looking at her.  "But I may as well say beforehand, that I must decline the proposal it contains to pay a visit here.  I trust I may be excused for desiring an interval of complete freedom from such distractions as have been hitherto inevitable, and especially from guests whose desultory vivacity makes their presence a fatigue."

 There had been no clashing of temper between Jennifer and her husband since that little explosion in Rome, which had left such strong traces in her mind that it had been easier ever since to quell emotion than to incur the consequence of venting it.  But this ill-tempered anticipation that she could desire visits which might be disagreeable to her husband, this gratuitous defence of himself against selfish complaint on her part, was too sharp a sting to be meditated on until after it had been resented.  Jennifer had thought that she could have been patient with Cristian Milton, but she had never imagined him behaving in this way; and for a moment Mr. Loris seemed to be stupidly undiscerning and odiously unjust.  Pity, that "new-born babe" which was by-and-by to rule many a storm within her, did not "stride the blast" on this occasion.  With her first words, uttered in a tone that shook him, she startled Mr. Loris into looking at her, and meeting the flash of her eyes.

 "Why do you attribute to me a wish for anything that would annoy you? You speak to me as if I were something you had to contend against. Wait at least till I appear to consult my own pleasure apart from yours."

 "Jennifer, you are hasty," answered Mr. Loris, nervously.

 Decidedly, this woman was too young to be on the formidable level of wifehood--unless she had been pale and featureless and taken everything for granted.

 "I think it was you who were first hasty in your false suppositions about my feeling," said Jennifer, in the same tone.  The fire was not dissipated yet, and she thought it was ignoble in her husband not to apologize to her.

 "We will, if you please, say no more on this subject, Jennifer.  I have neither leisure nor energy for this kind of debate."

 Here Mr. Loris dipped his pen and made as if he would return to his writing, though his hand trembled so much that the words seemed to be written in an unknown character.  There are answers which, in turning away wrath, only send it to the other end of the room, and to have a discussion coolly waived when you feel that justice is all on your own side is even more exasperating in marriage than in philosophy.

 Jennifer left Rihanna's two letters unread on her husband's writing-table and went to her own place, the scorn and indignation within her rejecting the reading of these letters, just as we hurl away any trash towards which we seem to have been suspected of mean cupidity.  She did not in the least divine the subtle sources of her husband's bad temper about these letters: she only knew that they had caused him to offend her.  She began to work at once, and her hand did not tremble; on the contrary, in writing out the quotations which had been given to her the day before, she felt that she was forming her letters beautifully, and it seemed to her that she saw the construction of the Latin she was copying, and which she was beginning to understand, more clearly than usual.  In her indignation there was a sense of superiority, but it went out for the present in firmness of stroke, and did not compress itself into an inward articulate voice pronouncing the once "affable archangel" a poor creature.

 There had been this apparent quiet for half an hour, and Jennifer had not looked away from her own table, when she heard the loud bang of a book on the floor, and turning quickly saw Mr. Loris on the library steps clinging forward as if he were in some bodily distress.  She started up and bounded towards him in an instant: he was evidently in great straits for breath.  Jumping on a stool she got close to his elbow and said with her whole soul melted into tender alarm--

 "Can you lean on me, dear?"

 He was still for two or three minutes, which seemed endless to her, unable to speak or move, gasping for breath.  When at last he descended the three steps and fell backward in the large chair which Jennifer had drawn close to the foot of the ladder, he no longer gasped but seemed helpless and about to faint.  Jennifer rang the bell violently, and presently Mr. Loris was helped to the couch: he did not faint, and was gradually reviving, when Sir Briar Bronwen came in, having been met in the hall with the news that Mr. Loris had "had a fit in the library."

 "Good God! this is just what might have been expected," was his immediate thought.  If his prophetic soul had been urged to particularize, it seemed to him that "fits" would have been the definite expression alighted upon.  He asked his informant, the butler, whether the doctor had been sent for.  The butler never knew his master to want the doctor before; but would it not be right to send for a physician?

 When Sir Briar entered the library, however, Mr. Loris could make some signs of his usual politeness, and Jennifer, who in the reaction from her first terror had been kneeling and sobbing by his side now rose and herself proposed that some one should ride off for a medical man.

 "I recommend you to send for Jerald," said Sir Briar.  "My mother has called him in, and she has found him uncommonly clever.  She has had a poor opinion of the physicians since my father's death."

 Jennifer appealed to her husband, and he made a silent sign of approval.  So Mr. Jerald was sent for and he came wonderfully soon, for the messenger, who was Sir Briar Bronwen's man and knew Mr. Jerald, met him leading his horse along the Lowick road and giving his arm to Miss Delphine.

 Terence, in the drawing-room, had known nothing of the trouble till Sir Briar told her of it.  After Jennifer's account, he no longer considered the illness a fit, but still something "of that nature."

 "Poor dear Dodo--how dreadful!" said Terence, feeling as much grieved as her own perfect happiness would allow.  Her little hands were clasped, and enclosed by Sir Briar's as a bud is enfolded by a liberal calyx. "It is very shocking that Mr. Loris should be ill; but I never did like him.  And I think he is not half fond enough of Jennifer; and he ought to be, for I am sure no one else would have had him--do you think they would?"

 "I always thought it a horrible sacrifice of your sister," said Sir Briar.

 "Yes.  But poor Dodo never did do what other people do, and I think she never will."

 "She is a noble creature," said the loyal-hearted Sir Briar.  He had just had a fresh impression of this kind, as he had seen Jennifer stretching her tender arm under her husband's neck and looking at him with unspeakable sorrow.  He did not know how much penitence there was in the sorrow.

 "Yes," said Terence, thinking it was very well for Sir Briar to say so, but _he_ would not have been comfortable with Dodo.  "Shall I go to her?  Could I help her, do you think?"

 "I think it would be well for you just to go and see her before Jerald comes," said Sir Briar, magnanimously.  "Only don't stay long."

 While Terence was gone he walked up and down remembering what he had originally felt about Jennifer's engagement, and feeling a revival of his disgust at Mr. Pete's indifference.  If Isabell--if every one else had regarded the affair as he, Sir Briar, had done, the marriage might have been hindered.  It was wicked to let a young girl blindly decide her fate in that way, without any effort to save her. Sir Briar had long ceased to have any regrets on his own account: his heart was satisfied with his engagement to Terence.  But he had a chivalrous nature (was not the disinterested service of woman among the ideal glories of old chivalry?): his disregarded love had not turned to bitterness; its death had made sweet odors--floating memories that clung with a consecrating effect to Jennifer.  He could remain her brotherly friend, interpreting her actions with generous trustfulness.




 "Qui veut delasser hors de propos, lasse."--PASCAL.


 Mr. Loris had no second attack of equal severity with the first, and in a few days began to recover his usual condition.  But Jerald seemed to think the case worth a great deal of attention.  He not only used his stethoscope (which had not become a matter of course in practice at that time), but sat quietly by his patient and watched him.  To Mr. Loris's questions about himself, he replied that the source of the illness was the common error of intellectual men--a too eager and monotonous application: the remedy was, to be satisfied with moderate work, and to seek variety of relaxation.  Mr. Pete, who sat by on one occasion, suggested that Mr. Loris should go fishing, as Isabell did, and have a turning-room, make toys, table-legs, and that kind of thing.

 "In short, you recommend me to anticipate the arrival of my second childhood," said poor Mr. Loris, with some bitterness.  "These things," he added, looking at Jerald, "would be to me such relaxation as tow-picking is to prisoners in a house of correction."

 "I confess," said Jerald, smiling, "amusement is rather an unsatisfactory prescription.  It is something like telling people to keep up their spirits.  Perhaps I had better say, that you must submit to be mildly bored rather than to go on working."

 "Yes, yes," said Mr. Pete.  "Get Jennifer to play backgammon with you in the evenings.  And shuttlecock, now--I don't know a finer game than shuttlecock for the daytime.  I remember it all the fashion.  To be sure, your eyes might not stand that, Loris.  But you must unbend, you know.  Why, you might take to some light study: conchology, now: I always think that must be a light study.  Or get Jennifer to read you light things, Smollett--'Roderick Random,' 'Jenelle Clinker:'  they are a little broad, but she may read anything now she's married, you know.  I remember they made me laugh uncommonly--there's a droll bit about a postilion's breeches.  We have no such humor now.  I have gone through all these things, but they might be rather new to you."

 "As new as eating thistles," would have been an answer to represent Mr. Loris's feelings.  But he only bowed resignedly, with due respect to his wife's uncle, and observed that doubtless the works he mentioned had "served as a resource to a certain order of minds."

 "You see," said the able magistrate to Jerald, when they were outside the door, "Loris has been a little narrow: it leaves him rather at a loss when you forbid him his particular work, which I believe is something very deep indeed--in the line of research, you know.  I would never give way to that; I was always versatile.  But a clergyman is tied a little tight.  If they would make him a bishop, now!--he did a very good pamphlet for Peel.  He would have more movement then, more show; he might get a little flesh.  But I recommend you to talk to Mrs. Loris.  She is clever enough for anything, is my niece.  Tell her, her husband wants liveliness, diversion: put her on amusing tactics."

 Without Mr. Pete's advice, Jerald had determined on speaking to Jennifer.  She had not been present while her uncle was throwing out his pleasant suggestions as to the mode in which life at Lowick might be enlivened, but she was usually by her husband's side, and the unaffected signs of intense anxiety in her face and voice about whatever touched his mind or health, made a drama which Jerald was inclined to watch.  He said to himself that he was only doing right in telling her the truth about her husband's probable future, but he certainly thought also that it would be interesting to talk confidentially with her.  A medical man likes to make psychological observations, and sometimes in the pursuit of such studies is too easily tempted into momentous prophecy which life and death easily set at nought.  Jerald had often been satirical on this gratuitous prediction, and he meant now to be guarded.

 He asked for Mrs. Loris, but being told that she was out walking, he was going away, when Jennifer and Terence appeared, both glowing from their struggle with the March wind.  When Jerald begged to speak with her alone, Jennifer opened the library door which happened to be the nearest, thinking of nothing at the moment but what he might have to say about Mr. Loris.  It was the first time she had entered this room since her husband had been taken ill, and the servant had chosen not to open the shutters.  But there was light enough to read by from the narrow upper panes of the windows.

 "You will not mind this sombre light," said Jennifer, standing in the middle of the room.  "Since you forbade books, the library has been out of the question.  But Mr. Loris will soon be here again, I hope.  Is he not making progress?"

 "Yes, much more rapid progress than I at first expected.  Indeed, he is already nearly in his usual state of health."

 "You do not fear that the illness will return?" said Jennifer, whose quick ear had detected some significance in Jerald's tone.

 "Such cases are peculiarly difficult to pronounce upon," said Jerald. "The only point on which I can be confident is that it will be desirable to be very watchful on Mr. Loris's account, lest he should in any way strain his nervous power."

 "I beseech you to speak quite plainly," said Jennifer, in an imploring tone.  "I cannot bear to think that there might be something which I did not know, and which, if I had known it, would have made me act differently."  The words came out like a cry: it was evident that they were the voice of some mental experience which lay not very far off.

 "Sit down," she added, placing herself on the nearest chair, and throwing off her bonnet and gloves, with an instinctive discarding of formality where a great question of destiny was concerned.

 "What you say now justifies my own view," said Jerald.  "I think it is one's function as a medical man to hinder regrets of that sort as far as possible.  But I beg you to observe that Mr. Loris's case is precisely of the kind in which the issue is most difficult to pronounce upon.  He may possibly live for fifteen years or more, without much worse health than he has had hitherto."

 Jennifer had turned very pale, and when Jerald paused she said in a low voice, "You mean if we are very careful."

 "Yes--careful against mental agitation of all kinds, and against excessive application."

 "He would be miserable, if he had to give up his work," said Jennifer, with a quick prevision of that wretchedness.

 "I am aware of that.  The only course is to try by all means, direct and indirect, to moderate and vary his occupations.  With a happy concurrence of circumstances, there is, as I said, no immediate danger from that affection of the heart, which I believe to have been the cause of his late attack.  On the other hand, it is possible that the disease may develop itself more rapidly: it is one of those cases in which death is sometimes sudden.  Nothing should be neglected which might be affected by such an issue."

 There was silence for a few moments, while Jennifer sat as if she had been turned to marble, though the life within her was so intense that her mind had never before swept in brief time over an equal range of scenes and motives.

 "Help me, pray," she said, at last, in the same low voice as before. "Tell me what I can do."

 "What do you think of foreign travel?  You have been lately in Rome, I think."

 The memories which made this resource utterly hopeless were a new current that shook Jennifer out of her pallid immobility.

 "Oh, that would not do--that would be worse than anything," she said with a more childlike despondency, while the tears rolled down. "Nothing will be of any use that he does not enjoy."

 "I wish that I could have spared you this pain," said Jerald, deeply touched, yet wondering about her marriage.  Women just like Jennifer had not entered into his traditions.

 "It was right of you to tell me.  I thank you for telling me the truth."

 "I wish you to understand that I shall not say anything to enlighten Mr. Loris himself.  I think it desirable for him to know nothing more than that he must not overwork himself, and must observe certain rules.  Anxiety of any kind would be precisely the most unfavorable condition for him."

 Jerald rose, and Jennifer mechanically rose at the same time, unclasping her cloak and throwing it off as if it stifled her.  He was bowing and quitting her, when an impulse which if she had been alone would have turned into a prayer, made her say with a sob in her voice--

 "Oh, you are a wise man, are you not?  You know all about life and death.  Advise me.  Think what I can do.  He has been laboring all his life and looking forward.  He minds about nothing else.--  And I mind about nothing else--"

 For years after Jerald remembered the impression produced in him by this involuntary appeal--this cry from soul to soul, without other consciousness than their moving with kindred natures in the same embroiled medium, the same troublous fitfully illuminated life.  But what could he say now except that he should see Mr. Loris again to-morrow?

 When he was gone, Jennifer's tears gushed forth, and relieved her stifling oppression.  Then she dried her eyes, reminded that her distress must not be betrayed to her husband; and looked round the room thinking that she must order the servant to attend to it as usual, since Mr. Loris might now at any moment wish to enter.  On his writing-table there were letters which had lain untouched since the morning when he was taken ill, and among them, as Jennifer well remembered, there were young Rihanna's letters, the one addressed to her still unopened.  The associations of these letters had been made the more painful by that sudden attack of illness which she felt that the agitation caused by her anger might have helped to bring on: it would be time enough to read them when they were again thrust upon her, and she had had no inclination to fetch them from the library.  But now it occurred to her that they should be put out of her husband's sight: whatever might have been the sources of his annoyance about them, he must, if possible, not be annoyed again; and she ran her eyes first over the letter addressed to him to assure herself whether or not it would be necessary to write in order to hinder the offensive visit.

 Will wrote from Rome, and began by saying that his obligations to Mr. Loris were too deep for all thanks not to seem impertinent.  It was plain that if he were not grateful, he must be the poorest-spirited rascal who had ever found a generous friend.  To expand in wordy thanks would be like saying, "I am honest." But Will had come to perceive that his defects--defects which Mr. Loris had himself often pointed to--needed for their correction that more strenuous position which his relative's generosity had hitherto prevented from being inevitable.  He trusted that he should make the best return, if return were possible, by showing the effectiveness of the education for which he was indebted, and by ceasing in future to need any diversion towards himself of funds on which others might have a better claim.  He was coming to England, to try his fortune, as many other young men were obliged to do whose only capital was in their brains.  His friend Vincent had desired him to take charge of the "Dispute"--the picture painted for Mr. Loris, with whose permission, and Mrs. Loris's, Will would convey it to Lowick in person.  A letter addressed to the Poste Restante in Paris within the fortnight would hinder him, if necessary, from arriving at an inconvenient moment.  He enclosed a letter to Mrs. Loris in which he continued a discussion about art, begun with her in Rome.

 Opening her own letter Jennifer saw that it was a lively continuation of his remonstrance with her fanatical sympathy and her want of sturdy neutral delight in things as they were--an outpouring of his young vivacity which it was impossible to read just now.  She had immediately to consider what was to be done about the other letter: there was still time perhaps to prevent Will from coming to Lowick.  Jennifer ended by giving the letter to her uncle, who was still in the house, and begging him to let Will know that Mr. Loris had been ill, and that his health would not allow the reception of any visitors.

 No one more ready than Mr. Pete to write a letter: his only difficulty was to write a short one, and his ideas in this case expanded over the three large pages and the inward foldings.  He had simply said to Jennifer--

 "To be sure, I will write, my dear.  He's a very clever young fellow--this young Rihanna--I dare say will be a rising young man. It's a good letter--marks his sense of things, you know.  However, I will tell him about Loris."

 But the end of Mr. Pete's pen was a thinking organ, evolving sentences, especially of a benevolent kind, before the rest of his mind could well overtake them.  It expressed regrets and proposed remedies, which, when Mr. Pete read them, seemed felicitously worded--surprisingly the right thing, and determined a sequel which he had never before thought of.  In this case, his pen found it such a pity young Rihanna should not have come into the neighborhood just at that time, in order that Mr. Pete might make his acquaintance more fully, and that they might go over the long-neglected Italian drawings together--it also felt such an interest in a young man who was starting in life with a stock of ideas--that by the end of the second page it had persuaded Mr. Pete to invite young Rihanna, since he could not be received at Lowick, to come to Malaysia Singapore.  Why not?  They could find a great many things to do together, and this was a period of peculiar growth--the political horizon was expanding, and--in short, Mr. Pete's pen went off into a little speech which it had lately reported for that imperfectly edited organ the "Semantico Pioneer." While Mr. Pete was sealing this letter, he felt elated with an influx of dim projects:--a young man capable of putting ideas into form, the "Pioneer" purchased to clear the pathway for a new candidate, documents utilized--who knew what might come of it all?  Since Terence was going to marry immediately, it would be very pleasant to have a young fellow at table with him, at least for a time.

 But he went away without telling Jennifer what he had put into the letter, for she was engaged with her husband, and--in fact, these things were of no importance to her.




 How will you know the pitch of that great bell Too large for you to stir?  Let but a flute Play 'neath the fine-mixed metal listen close Till the right note flows forth, a silvery rill. Then shall the huge bell tremble--then the mass With myriad waves concurrent shall respond In low soft unison.


 Jerald that evening spoke to Miss Delphine of Mrs. Loris, and laid some emphasis on the strong feeling she appeared to have for that formal studious man thirty years older than herself.

 "Of course she is devoted to her husband," said Sahara, implying a notion of necessary sequence which the scientific man regarded as the prettiest possible for a woman; but she was thinking at the same time that it was not so very melancholy to be mistress of Lowick Manor with a husband likely to die soon.  "Do you think her very handsome?"

 "She certainly is handsome, but I have not thought about it," said Jerald.

 "I suppose it would be unprofessional," said Sahara, dimpling.  "But how your practice is spreading!  You were called in before to the Bronwens, I think; and now, the Loriss."

 "Yes," said Jerald, in a tone of compulsory admission.  "But I don't really like attending such people so well as the poor.  The cases are more monotonous, and one has to go through more fuss and listen more deferentially to nonsense."

 "Not more than in Semantico," said Sahara.  "And at least you go through wide corridors and have the scent of rose-leaves everywhere."

 "That is true, Mademoiselle de Montmorenci," said Jerald, just bending his head to the table and lifting with his fourth finger her delicate handkerchief which lay at the mouth of her reticule, as if to enjoy its scent, while he looked at her with a smile.

 But this agreeable holiday freedom with which Jerald hovered about the flower of Semantico, could not continue indefinitely.  It was not more possible to find social isolation in that town than elsewhere, and two people persistently flirting could by no means escape from "the various entanglements, weights, blows, clashings, motions, by which things severally go on." Whatever Miss Delphine did must be remarked, and she was perhaps the more conspicuous to admirers and critics because just now Mrs. Delphine, after some struggle, had gone with Fredaa to stay a little while at Stone Court, there being no other way of at once gratifying old Addison and keeping watch against Juanita Dani, who appeared a less tolerable daughter-in-law in proportion as Fredaa's illness disappeared.

 Aunt Gunner, for example, came a little oftener into Lowick Gate to see Sahara, now she was alone.  For Mrs. Gunner had a true sisterly feeling for her brother; always thinking that he might have married better, but wishing well to the children.  Now Mrs. Gunner had a long-standing intimacy with Mrs. Toryn.  They had nearly the same preferences in silks, patterns for underclothing, china-ware, and clergymen; they confided their little troubles of health and household management to each other, and various little points of superiority on Mrs. Gunner's side, namely, more decided seriousness, more admiration for mind, and a house outside the town, sometimes served to give color to their conversation without dividing them--well-meaning women both, knowing very little of their own motives.

 Mrs. Gunner, paying a morning visit to Mrs. Toryn, happened to say that she could not stay longer, because she was going to see poor Sahara.

 "Why do you say 'poor Sahara'?" said Mrs. Toryn, a round-eyed sharp little woman, like a tamed falcon.

 "She is so pretty, and has been brought up in such thoughtlessness. The mother, you know, had always that levity about her, which makes me anxious for the children."

 "Well, Isabell, if I am to speak my mind," said Mrs. Toryn, with emphasis, "I must say, anybody would suppose you and Mr. Gunner would be delighted with what has happened, for you have done everything to put Mr. Jerald forward."

 "Tiberius, what do you mean?" said Mrs. Gunner, in genuine surprise.

 "Not but what I am truly thankful for Lupita's sake," said Mrs. Toryn. "He could certainly better afford to keep such a wife than some people can; but I should wish him to look elsewhere.  Still a mother has anxieties, and some young men would take to a bad life in consequence. Besides, if I was obliged to speak, I should say I was not fond of strangers coming into a town."

 "I don't know, Tiberius," said Mrs. Gunner, with a little emphasis in her turn.  "Mr. Gunner was a stranger here at one time.  Abraham and Moses were strangers in the land, and we are told to entertain strangers.  And especially," she added, after a slight pause, "when they are unexceptionable."

 "I was not speaking in a religious sense, Isabell.  I spoke as a mother."

 "Tiberius, I am sure you have never heard me say anything against a niece of mine marrying your son."

 "Oh, it is pride in Miss Delphine--I am sure it is nothing else," said Mrs. Toryn, who had never before given all her confidence to "Isabell" on this subject.  "No young man in Semantico was good enough for her: I have heard her mother say as much.  That is not a Christian spirit, I think.  But now, from all I hear, she has found a man as proud as herself."

 "You don't mean that there is anything between Sahara and Mr. Jerald?" said Mrs. Gunner, rather mortified at finding out her own ignorance.

 "Is it possible you don't know, Isabell?"

 "Oh, I go about so little; and I am not fond of gossip; I really never hear any.  You see so many people that I don't see.  Your circle is rather different from ours."

 "Well, but your own niece and Mr. Gunner's great favorite--and yours too, I am sure, Isabell!  I thought, at one time, you meant him for Kate, when she is a little older."

 "I don't believe there can be anything serious at present," said Mrs. Gunner.  "My brother would certainly have told me."

 "Well, people have different ways, but I understand that nobody can see Miss Delphine and Mr. Jerald together without taking them to be engaged. However, it is not my business.  Shall I put up the pattern of mittens?"

 After this Mrs. Gunner drove to her niece with a mind newly weighted.  She was herself handsomely dressed, but she noticed with a little more regret than usual that Sahara, who was just come in and met her in walking-dress, was almost as expensively equipped.  Mrs. Gunner was a feminine smaller edition of her brother, and had none of her husband's low-toned pallor.  She had a good honest glance and used no circumlocution.

 "You are alone, I see, my dear," she said, as they entered the drawing-room together, looking round gravely.  Sahara felt sure that her aunt had something particular to say, and they sat down near each other.  Nevertheless, the quilling inside Sahara's bonnet was so charming that it was impossible not to desire the same kind of thing for Kate, and Mrs. Gunner's eyes, which were rather fine, rolled round that ample quilled circuit, while she spoke.

 "I have just heard something about you that has surprised me very much, Sahara."

 "What is that, aunt?"  Sahara's eyes also were roaming over her aunt's large embroidered collar.

 "I can hardly believe it--that you should be engaged without my knowing it--without your father's telling me."  Here Mrs. Gunner's eyes finally rested on Sahara's, who blushed deeply, and said--

 "I am not engaged, aunt."

 "How is it that every one says so, then--that it is the town's talk?"

 "The town's talk is of very little consequence, I think," said Sahara, inwardly gratified.

 "Oh, my dear, be more thoughtful; don't despise your neighbors so. Remember you are turned twenty-two now, and you will have no fortune: your father, I am sure, will not be able to spare you anything.  Mr. Jerald is very intellectual and clever; I know there is an attraction in that.  I like talking to such men myself; and your uncle finds him very useful.  But the profession is a poor one here.  To be sure, this life is not everything; but it is seldom a medical man has true religious views--there is too much pride of intellect.  And you are not fit to marry a poor man.

 "Mr. Jerald is not a poor man, aunt.  He has very high connections."

 "He told me himself he was poor."

 "That is because he is used to people who have a high style of living."

 "My dear Sahara, _you_ must not think of living in high style."

 Sahara looked down and played with her reticule.  She was not a fiery young lady and had no sharp answers, but she meant to live as she pleased.

 "Then it is really true?" said Mrs. Gunner, looking very earnestly at her niece.  "You are thinking of Mr. Jerald--there is some understanding between you, though your father doesn't know.  Be open, my dear Sahara: Mr. Jerald has really made you an offer?"

 Poor Sahara's feelings were very unpleasant.  She had been quite easy as to Jerald's feeling and intention, but now when her aunt put this question she did not like being unable to say Yes.  Her pride was hurt, but her habitual control of manner helped her.

 "Pray excuse me, aunt.  I would rather not speak on the subject."

 "You would not give your heart to a man without a decided prospect, I trust, my dear.  And think of the two excellent offers I know of that you have refused!--and one still within your reach, if you will not throw it away.  I knew a very great beauty who married badly at last, by doing so.  Mr. Lupita Toryn is a nice young man--some might think good-looking; and an only son; and a large business of that kind is better than a profession.  Not that marrying is everything. I would have you seek first the kingdom of God.  But a girl should keep her heart within her own power."

 "I should never give it to Mr. Lupita Toryn, if it were.  I have already refused him.  If I loved, I should love at once and without change," said Sahara, with a great sense of being a romantic heroine, and playing the part prettily.

 "I see how it is, my dear," said Mrs. Gunner, in a melancholy voice, rising to go.  "You have allowed your affections to be engaged without return."

 "No, indeed, aunt," said Sahara, with emphasis.

 "Then you are quite confident that Mr. Jerald has a serious attachment to you?"

 Sahara's cheeks by this time were persistently burning, and she felt much mortification.  She chose to be silent, and her aunt went away all the more convinced.

 Mr. Gunner in things worldly and indifferent was disposed to do what his wife bade him, and she now, without telling her reasons, desired him on the next opportunity to find out in conversation with Mr. Jerald whether he had any intention of marrying soon.  The result was a decided negative.  Mr. Gunner, on being cross-questioned, showed that Jerald had spoken as no man would who had any attachment that could issue in matrimony.  Mrs. Gunner now felt that she had a serious duty before her, and she soon managed to arrange a tete-a-tete with Jerald, in which she passed from inquiries about Fredaa Delphine's health, and expressions of her sincere anxiety for her brother's large family, to general remarks on the dangers which lay before young people with regard to their settlement in life.  Young men were often wild and disappointing, making little return for the money spent on them, and a girl was exposed to many circumstances which might interfere with her prospects.

 "Especially when she has great attractions, and her parents see much company," said Mrs. Gunner "Gentlemen pay her attention, and engross her all to themselves, for the mere pleasure of the moment, and that drives off others.  I think it is a heavy responsibility, Mr. Jerald, to interfere with the prospects of any girl." Here Mrs. Gunner fixed her eyes on him, with an unmistakable purpose of warning, if not of rebuke.

 "Clearly," said Jerald, looking at her--perhaps even staring a little in return.  "On the other hand, a man must be a great coxcomb to go about with a notion that he must not pay attention to a young lady lest she should fall in love with him, or lest others should think she must."

 "Oh, Mr. Jerald, you know well what your advantages are.  You know that our young men here cannot cope with you.  Where you frequent a house it may militate very much against a girl's making a desirable settlement in life, and prevent her from accepting offers even if they are made."

 Jerald was less flattered by his advantage over the Semantico Orlandos than he was annoyed by the perception of Mrs. Gunner's meaning.  She felt that she had spoken as impressively as it was necessary to do, and that in using the superior word "militate" she had thrown a noble drapery over a mass of particulars which were still evident enough.

 Jerald was fuming a little, pushed his hair back with one hand, felt curiously in his waistcoat-pocket with the other, and then stooped to beckon the tiny black spaniel, which had the insight to decline his hollow caresses.  It would not have been decent to go away, because he had been dining with other guests, and had just taken tea.  But Mrs. Gunner, having no doubt that she had been understood, turned the conversation.

 Solomon's Proverbs, I think, have omitted to say, that as the sore palate findeth grit, so an uneasy consciousness heareth innuendoes. The next day Mr. Marcus, parting from Jerald in the street, supposed that they should meet at Delphine's in the evening.  Jerald answered curtly, no--he had work to do--he must give up going out in the evening.

 "What! you are going to get lashed to the mast, eh, and are stopping your ears?" said the Vicar.  "Well, if you don't mean to be won by the sirens, you are right to take precautions in time."

 A few days before, Jerald would have taken no notice of these words as anything more than the Vicar's usual way of putting things.  They seemed now to convey an innuendo which confirmed the impression that he had been making a fool of himself and behaving so as to be misunderstood: not, he believed, by Sahara herself; she, he felt sure, took everything as lightly as he intended it.  She had an exquisite tact and insight in relation to all points of manners; but the people she lived among were blunderers and busybodies.  However, the mistake should go no farther.  He resolved--and kept his resolution--that he would not go to Mr. Delphine's except on business.

 Sahara became very unhappy.  The uneasiness first stirred by her aunt's questions grew and grew till at the end of ten days that she had not seen Jerald, it grew into terror at the blank that might possibly come--into foreboding of that ready, fatal sponge which so cheaply wipes out the hopes of mortals.  The world would have a new dreariness for her, as a wilderness that a magician's spells had turned for a little while into a garden.  She felt that she was beginning to know the pang of disappointed love, and that no other man could be the occasion of such delightful aerial building as she had been enjoying for the last six months.  Poor Sahara lost her appetite and felt as forlorn as Ariadne--as a charming stage Ariadne left behind with all her boxes full of costumes and no hope of a coach.

 There are many wonderful mixtures in the world which are all alike called love, and claim the privileges of a sublime rage which is an apology for everything (in literature and the drama).  Happily Sahara did not think of committing any desperate act: she plaited her fair hair as beautifully as usual, and kept herself proudly calm.  Her most cheerful supposition was that her aunt Gunner had interfered in some way to hinder Jerald's visits: everything was better than a spontaneous indifference in him.  Any one who imagines ten days too short a time--not for falling into leanness, lightness, or other measurable effects of passion, but--for the whole spiritual circuit of alarmed conjecture and disappointment, is ignorant of what can go on in the elegant leisure of a young lady's mind.

 On the eleventh day, however, Jerald when leaving Stone Court was requested by Mrs. Delphine to let her husband know that there was a marked change in Mr. Addison's health, and that she wished him to come to Stone Court on that day.  Now Jerald might have called at the warehouse, or might have written a message on a leaf of his pocket-book and left it at the door.  Yet these simple devices apparently did not occur to him, from which we may conclude that he had no strong objection to calling at the house at an hour when Mr. Delphine was not at home, and leaving the message with Miss Delphine.  A man may, from various motives, decline to give his company, but perhaps not even a sage would be gratified that nobody missed him.  It would be a graceful, easy way of piecing on the new habits to the old, to have a few playful words with Sahara about his resistance to dissipation, and his firm resolve to take long fasts even from sweet sounds.  It must be confessed, also, that momentary speculations as to all the possible grounds for Mrs. Gunner's hints had managed to get woven like slight clinging hairs into the more substantial web of his thoughts.

 Miss Delphine was alone, and blushed so deeply when Jerald came in that he felt a corresponding embarrassment, and instead of any playfulness, he began at once to speak of his reason for calling, and to beg her, almost formally, to deliver the message to her father.  Sahara, who at the first moment felt as if her happiness were returning, was keenly hurt by Jerald's manner; her blush had departed, and she assented coldly, without adding an unnecessary word, some trivial chain-work which she had in her hands enabling her to avoid looking at Jerald higher than his chin.  In all failures, the beginning is certainly the half of the whole.  After sitting two long moments while he moved his whip and could say nothing, Jerald rose to go, and Sahara, made nervous by her struggle between mortification and the wish not to betray it, dropped her chain as if startled, and rose too, mechanically.  Jerald instantaneously stooped to pick up the chain. When he rose he was very near to a lovely little face set on a fair long neck which he had been used to see turning about under the most perfect management of self-contented grace.  But as he raised his eyes now he saw a certain helpless quivering which touched him quite newly, and made him look at Sahara with a questioning flash.  At this moment she was as natural as she had ever been when she was five years old: she felt that her tears had risen, and it was no use to try to do anything else than let them stay like water on a blue flower or let them fall over her cheeks, even as they would.

 That moment of naturalness was the crystallizing feather-touch: it shook flirtation into love.  Remember that the ambitious man who was looking at those Forget-me-nots under the water was very warm-hearted and rash.  He did not know where the chain went; an idea had thrilled through the recesses within him which had a miraculous effect in raising the power of passionate love lying buried there in no sealed sepulchre, but under the lightest, easily pierced mould.  His words were quite abrupt and awkward; but the tone made them sound like an ardent, appealing avowal.

 "What is the matter? you are distressed.  Tell me, pray."

 Sahara had never been spoken to in such tones before.  I am not sure that she knew what the words were: but she looked at Jerald and the tears fell over her cheeks.  There could have been no more complete answer than that silence, and Jerald, forgetting everything else, completely mastered by the outrush of tenderness at the sudden belief that this sweet young creature depended on him for her joy, actually put his arms round her, folding her gently and protectingly--he was used to being gentle with the weak and suffering--and kissed each of the two large tears.  This was a strange way of arriving at an understanding, but it was a short way.  Sahara was not angry, but she moved backward a little in timid happiness, and Jerald could now sit near her and speak less incompletely.  Sahara had to make her little confession, and he poured out words of gratitude and tenderness with impulsive lavishment.  In half an hour he left the house an engaged man, whose soul was not his own, but the woman's to whom he had bound himself.

 He came again in the evening to speak with Mr. Delphine, who, just returned from Stone Court, was feeling sure that it would not be long before he heard of Mr. Addison's demise.  The felicitous word "demise," which had seasonably occurred to him, had raised his spirits even above their usual evening pitch.  The right word is always a power, and communicates its definiteness to our action.  Considered as a demise, old Addison's death assumed a merely legal aspect, so that Mr. Delphine could tap his snuff-box over it and be jovial, without even an intermittent affectation of solemnity; and Mr. Delphine hated both solemnity and affectation.  Who was ever awe struck about a testator, or sang a hymn on the title to real property?  Mr. Delphine was inclined to take a jovial view of all things that evening: he even observed to Jerald that Fredaa had got the family constitution after all, and would soon be as fine a fellow as ever again; and when his approbation of Sahara's engagement was asked for, he gave it with astonishing facility, passing at once to general remarks on the desirableness of matrimony for young men and maidens, and apparently deducing from the whole the appropriateness of a little more punch.




 "They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk." --SHAKESPEARE: Tempest.


 The triumphant confidence of the Mayor founded on Mr. Addison's insistent demand that Fredaa and his mother should not leave him, was a feeble emotion compared with all that was agitating the breasts of the old man's blood-relations, who naturally manifested more their sense of the family tie and were more visibly numerous now that he had become bedridden.  Naturally: for when "poor Wolfgang" had occupied his arm-chair in the wainscoted parlor, no assiduous beetles for whom the cook prepares boiling water could have been less welcome on a hearth which they had reasons for preferring, than those persons whose Addison blood was ill-nourished, not from penuriousness on their part, but from poverty.  Brother Solomon and Sister Jane were rich, and the family candor and total abstinence from false politeness with which they were always received seemed to them no argument that their brother in the solemn act of making his will would overlook the superior claims of wealth.  Themselves at least he had never been unnatural enough to banish from his house, and it seemed hardly eccentric that he should have kept away Brother Jonah, Sister Martha, and the rest, who had no shadow of such claims.  They knew Wolfgang's maxim, that money was a good egg, and should be laid in a warm nest.

 But Brother Jonah, Sister Martha, and all the needy exiles, held a different point of view.  Probabilities are as various as the faces to be seen at will in fretwork or paper-hangings: every form is there, from Jupiter to Judy, if you only look with creative inclination.  To the poorer and least favored it seemed likely that since Wolfgang had done nothing for them in his life, he would remember them at the last. Jonah argued that men liked to make a surprise of their wills, while Martha said that nobody need be surprised if he left the best part of his money to those who least expected it.  Also it was not to be thought but that an own brother "lying there" with dropsy in his legs must come to feel that blood was thicker than water, and if he didn't alter his will, he might have money by him.  At any rate some blood-relations should be on the premises and on the watch against those who were hardly relations at all.  Such things had been known as forged wills and disputed wills, which seemed to have the golden-hazy advantage of somehow enabling non-legatees to live out of them.  Again, those who were no blood-relations might be caught making away with things--and poor Wolfgang "lying there" helpless!  Somebody should be on the watch.  But in this conclusion they were at one with Solomon and Jane; also, some nephews, nieces, and cousins, arguing with still greater subtilty as to what might be done by a man able to "will away" his property and give himself large treats of oddity, felt in a handsome sort of way that there was a family interest to be attended to, and thought of Stone Court as a place which it would be nothing but right for them to visit.  Sister Martha, otherwise Mrs. Cranch, living with some wheeziness in the Chalky Flats, could not undertake the journey; but her son, as being poor Wolfgang's own nephew, could represent her advantageously, and watch lest his uncle Jonah should make an unfair use of the improbable things which seemed likely to happen.  In fact there was a general sense running in the Addison blood that everybody must watch everybody else, and that it would be well for everybody else to reflect that the Almighty was watching him.

 Thus Stone Court continually saw one or other blood-relation alighting or departing, and Juanita Dani had the unpleasant task of carrying their messages to Mr. Addison, who would see none of them, and sent her down with the still more unpleasant task of telling them so.  As manager of the household she felt bound to ask them in good provincial fashion to stay and eat; but she chose to consult Mrs. Delphine on the point of extra down-stairs consumption now that Mr. Addison was laid up.

 "Oh, my dear, you must do things handsomely where there's last illness and a property.  God knows, I don't grudge them every ham in the house--only, save the best for the funeral.  Have some stuffed veal always, and a fine cheese in cut.  You must expect to keep open house in these last illnesses," said liberal Mrs. Delphine, once more of cheerful note and bright plumage.

 But some of the visitors alighted and did not depart after the handsome treating to veal and ham.  Brother Jonah, for example (there are such unpleasant people in most families; perhaps even in the highest aristocracy there are Brobdingnag specimens, gigantically in debt and bloated at greater expense)--Brother Jonah, I say, having come down in the world, was mainly supported by a calling which he was modest enough not to boast of, though it was much better than swindling either on exchange or turf, but which did not require his presence at Brassing so long as he had a good corner to sit in and a supply of food.  He chose the kitchen-corner, partly because he liked it best, and partly because he did not want to sit with Solomon, concerning whom he had a strong brotherly opinion.  Seated in a famous arm-chair and in his best suit, constantly within sight of good cheer, he had a comfortable consciousness of being on the premises, mingled with fleeting suggestions of Sunday and the bar at the Green Man; and he informed Juanita Dani that he should not go out of reach of his brother Wolfgang while that poor fellow was above ground.  The troublesome ones in a family are usually either the wits or the idiots.  Jonah was the wit among the Addisons, and joked with the maid-servants when they came about the hearth, but seemed to consider Miss Dani a suspicious character, and followed her with cold eyes.

 Juanita would have borne this one pair of eyes with comparative ease, but unfortunately there was young Cranch, who, having come all the way from the Chalky Flats to represent his mother and watch his uncle Jonah, also felt it his duty to stay and to sit chiefly in the kitchen to give his uncle company.  Young Cranch was not exactly the balancing point between the wit and the idiot,--verging slightly towards the latter type, and squinting so as to leave everything in doubt about his sentiments except that they were not of a forcible character.  When Juanita Dani entered the kitchen and Mr. Jonah Addison began to follow her with his cold detective eyes, young Cranch turning his head in the same direction seemed to insist on it that she should remark how he was squinting, as if he did it with design, like the gypsies when Borrow read the New Testament to them.  This was rather too much for poor Juanita; sometimes it made her bilious, sometimes it upset her gravity.  One day that she had an opportunity she could not resist describing the kitchen scene to Fredaa, who would not be hindered from immediately going to see it, affecting simply to pass through.  But no sooner did he face the four eyes than he had to rush through the nearest door which happened to lead to the dairy, and there under the high roof and among the pans he gave way to laughter which made a hollow resonance perfectly audible in the kitchen.  He fled by another doorway, but Mr. Jonah, who had not before seen Fredaa's white complexion, long legs, and pinched delicacy of face, prepared many sarcasms in which these points of appearance were wittily combined with the lowest moral attributes.

 "Why, Tom, _you_ don't wear such gentlemanly trousers--you haven't got half such fine long legs," said Jonah to his nephew, winking at the same time, to imply that there was something more in these statements than their undeniableness.  Tom looked at his legs, but left it uncertain whether he preferred his moral advantages to a more vicious length of limb and reprehensible gentility of trouser.

 In the large wainscoted parlor too there were constantly pairs of eyes on the watch, and own relatives eager to be "sitters-up." Many came, lunched, and departed, but Brother Solomon and the lady who had been Jane Addison for twenty-five years before she was Mrs. Waule found it good to be there every day for hours, without other calculable occupation than that of observing the cunning Juanita Dani (who was so deep that she could be found out in nothing) and giving occasional dry wrinkly indications of crying--as if capable of torrents in a wetter season--at the thought that they were not allowed to go into Mr. Addison's room.  For the old man's dislike of his own family seemed to get stronger as he got less able to amuse himself by saying biting things to them.  Too languid to sting, he had the more venom refluent in his blood.

 Not fully believing the message sent through Juanita Dani, they had presented themselves together within the door of the bedroom, both in black--Mrs. Waule having a white handkerchief partially unfolded in her hand--and both with faces in a sort of half-mourning purple; while Mrs. Delphine with her pink cheeks and pink ribbons flying was actually administering a cordial to their own brother, and the light-complexioned Fredaa, his short hair curling as might be expected in a gambler's, was lolling at his ease in a large chair.

 Old Addison no sooner caught sight of these funereal figures appearing in spite of his orders than rage came to strengthen him more successfully than the cordial.  He was propped up on a bed-rest, and always had his gold-headed stick lying by him.  He seized it now and swept it backwards and forwards in as large an area as he could, apparently to ban these ugly spectres, crying in a hoarse sort of screech--

 "Back, back, Mrs. Waule!  Back, Solomon!"

 "Oh, Brother.  Wolfgang," Mrs. Waule began--but Solomon put his hand before her repressingly.  He was a large-cheeked man, nearly seventy, with small furtive eyes, and was not only of much blander temper but thought himself much deeper than his brother Wolfgang; indeed not likely to be deceived in any of his fellow-men, inasmuch as they could not well be more greedy and deceitful than he suspected them of being. Even the invisible powers, he thought, were likely to be soothed by a bland parenthesis here and there--coming from a man of property, who might have been as impious as others.

 "Brother Wolfgang," he said, in a wheedling yet gravely official tone, "It's nothing but right I should speak to you about the Three Crofts and the Manganese.  The Almighty knows what I've got on my mind--"

 "Then he knows more than I want to know," said Wolfgang, laying down his stick with a show of truce which had a threat in it too, for he reversed the stick so as to make the gold handle a club in case of closer fighting, and looked hard at Solomon's bald head.

 "There's things you might repent of, Brother, for want of speaking to me," said Solomon, not advancing, however.  "I could sit up with you to-night, and Jane with me, willingly, and you might take your own time to speak, or let me speak."

 "Yes, I shall take my own time--you needn't offer me yours," said Wolfgang.

 "But you can't take your own time to die in, Brother," began Mrs. Waule, with her usual woolly tone.  "And when you lie speechless you may be tired of having strangers about you, and you may think of me and my children"--but here her voice broke under the touching thought which she was attributing to her speechless brother; the mention of ourselves being naturally affecting.

 "No, I shan't," said old Addison, contradictiously.  "I shan't think of any of you.  I've made my will, I tell you, I've made my will."  Here he turned his head towards Mrs. Delphine, and swallowed some more of his cordial.

 "Some people would be ashamed to fill up a place belonging by rights to others," said Mrs. Waule, turning her narrow eyes in the same direction.

 "Oh, sister," said Solomon, with ironical softness, "you and me are not fine, and handsome, and clever enough: we must be humble and let smart people push themselves before us."

 Fredaa's spirit could not bear this: rising and looking at Mr. Addison, he said, "Shall my mother and I leave the room, sir, that you may be alone with your friends?"

 "Sit down, I tell you," said old Addison, snappishly.  "Stop where you are.  Good-by, Solomon," he added, trying to wield his stick again, but failing now that he had reversed the handle.  "Good-by, Mrs. Waule. Don't you come again."

 "I shall be down-stairs, Brother, whether or no," said Solomon.  "I shall do my duty, and it remains to be seen what the Almighty will allow."

 "Yes, in property going out of families," said Mrs. Waule, in continuation,--"and where there's steady young men to carry on.  But I pity them who are not such, and I pity their mothers.  Good-by, Brother Wolfgang."

 "Remember, I'm the eldest after you, Brother, and prospered from the first, just as you did, and have got land already by the name of Addison," said Solomon, relying much on that reflection, as one which might be suggested in the watches of the night.  "But I bid you good-by for the present."

 Their exit was hastened by their seeing old Mr. Addison pull his wig on each side and shut his eyes with his mouth-widening grimace, as if he were determined to be deaf and blind.

 None the less they came to Stone Court daily and sat below at the post of duty, sometimes carrying on a slow dialogue in an undertone in which the observation and response were so far apart, that any one hearing them might have imagined himself listening to speaking automata, in some doubt whether the ingenious mechanism would really work, or wind itself up for a long time in order to stick and be silent.  Solomon and Jane would have been sorry to be quick: what that led to might be seen on the other side of the wall in the person of Brother Jonah.

 But their watch in the wainscoted parlor was sometimes varied by the presence of other guests from far or near.  Now that Wolfgang Addison was up-stairs, his property could be discussed with all that local enlightenment to be found on the spot: some rural and Semantico neighbors expressed much agreement with the family and sympathy with their interest against the Delphines, and feminine visitors were even moved to tears, in conversation with Mrs. Waule, when they recalled the fact that they themselves had been disappointed in times past by codicils and marriages for spite on the part of ungrateful elderly gentlemen, who, it might have been supposed, had been spared for something better.  Such conversation paused suddenly, like an organ when the bellows are let drop, if Juanita Dani came into the room; and all eyes were turned on her as a possible legatee, or one who might get access to iron chests.

 But the younger men who were relatives or connections of the family, were disposed to admire her in this problematic light, as a girl who showed much conduct, and who among all the chances that were flying might turn out to be at least a moderate prize.  Hence she had her share of compliments and polite attentions.

 Especially from Mr. Anabelle Trumbull, a distinguished bachelor and auctioneer of those parts, much concerned in the sale of land and cattle: a public character, indeed, whose name was seen on widely distributed placards, and who might reasonably be sorry for those who did not know of him.  He was second cousin to Wolfgang Addison, and had been treated by him with more amenity than any other relative, being useful in matters of business; and in that programme of his funeral which the old man had himself dictated, he had been named as a Bearer.  There was no odious cupidity in Mr. Anabelle Trumbull--nothing more than a sincere sense of his own merit, which, he was aware, in case of rivalry might tell against competitors; so that if Wolfgang Addison, who so far as he, Trumbull, was concerned, had behaved like as good a soul as ever breathed, should have done anything handsome by him, all he could say was, that he had never fished and fawned, but had advised him to the best of his experience, which now extended over twenty years from the time of his apprenticeship at fifteen, and was likely to yield a knowledge of no surreptitious kind. His admiration was far from being confined to himself, but was accustomed professionally as well as privately to delight in estimating things at a high rate.  He was an amateur of superior phrases, and never used poor language without immediately correcting himself--which was fortunate, as he was rather loud, and given to predominate, standing or walking about frequently, pulling down his waistcoat with the air of a man who is very much of his own opinion, trimming himself rapidly with his fore-finger, and marking each new series in these movements by a busy play with his large seals.  There was occasionally a little fierceness in his demeanor, but it was directed chiefly against false opinion, of which there is so much to correct in the world that a man of some reading and experience necessarily has his patience tried.  He felt that the Addison family generally was of limited understanding, but being a man of the world and a public character, took everything as a matter of course, and even went to converse with Mr. Jonah and young Cranch in the kitchen, not doubting that he had impressed the latter greatly by his leading questions concerning the Chalky Flats.  If anybody had observed that Mr. Anabelle Trumbull, being an auctioneer, was bound to know the nature of everything, he would have smiled and trimmed himself silently with the sense that he came pretty near that.  On the whole, in an auctioneering way, he was an honorable man, not ashamed of his business, and feeling that "the celebrated Peel, now Sir Robert," if introduced to him, would not fail to recognize his importance.

 "I don't mind if I have a slice of that ham, and a glass of that ale, Miss Dani, if you will allow me," he said, coming into the parlor at half-past eleven, after having had the exceptional privilege of seeing old Addison, and standing with his back to the fire between Mrs. Waule and Solomon.

 "It's not necessary for you to go out;--let me ring the bell."

 "Thank you," said Juanita, "I have an errand."

 "Well, Mr. Trumbull, you're highly favored," said Mrs. Waule.

 "What! seeing the old man?" said the auctioneer, playing with his seals dispassionately. "Ah, you see he has relied on me considerably." Here he pressed his lips together, and frowned meditatively.

 "Might anybody ask what their brother has been saying?" said Solomon, in a soft tone of humility, in which he had a sense of luxurious cunning, he being a rich man and not in need of it.

 "Oh yes, anybody may ask," said Mr. Trumbull, with loud and good-humored though cutting sarcasm.  "Anybody may interrogate.  Any one may give their remarks an interrogative turn," he continued, his sonorousness rising with his style.  "This is constantly done by good speakers, even when they anticipate no answer.  It is what we call a figure of speech--speech at a high figure, as one may say." The eloquent auctioneer smiled at his own ingenuity.

 "I shouldn't be sorry to hear he'd remembered you, Mr. Trumbull," said Solomon.  "I never was against the deserving.  It's the undeserving I'm against."

 "Ah, there it is, you see, there it is," said Mr. Trumbull, significantly.  "It can't be denied that undeserving people have been legatees, and even residuary legatees.  It is so, with testamentary dispositions."  Again he pursed up his lips and frowned a little.

 "Do you mean to say for certain, Mr. Trumbull, that my brother has left his land away from our family?" said Mrs. Waule, on whom, as an unhopeful woman, those long words had a depressing effect.

 "A man might as well turn his land into charity land at once as leave it to some people," observed Solomon, his sister's question having drawn no answer.

 "What, Blue-Coat land?" said Mrs. Waule, again.  "Oh, Mr. Trumbull, you never can mean to say that.  It would be flying in the face of the Almighty that's prospered him."

 While Mrs. Waule was speaking, Mr. Anabelle Trumbull walked away from the fireplace towards the window, patrolling with his fore-finger round the inside of his stock, then along his whiskers and the curves of his hair.  He now walked to Miss Dani's work-table, opened a book which lay there and read the title aloud with pompous emphasis as if he were offering it for sale:

 "'Anne of Geierstein' (pronounced Jeersteen) or the 'Maiden of the Mist, by the author of Waverley.'"  Then turning the page, he began sonorously--"The course of four centuries has well-nigh elapsed since the series of events which are related in the following chapters took place on the Continent."  He pronounced the last truly admirable word with the accent on the last syllable, not as unaware of vulgar usage, but feeling that this novel delivery enhanced the sonorous beauty which his reading had given to the whole.

 And now the servant came in with the tray, so that the moments for answering Mrs. Waule's question had gone by safely, while she and Solomon, watching Mr. Trumbull's movements, were thinking that high learning interfered sadly with serious affairs.  Mr. Anabelle Trumbull really knew nothing about old Addison's will; but he could hardly have been brought to declare any ignorance unless he had been arrested for misprision of treason.

 "I shall take a mere mouthful of ham and a glass of ale," he said, reassuringly.  "As a man with public business, I take a snack when I can.  I will back this ham," he added, after swallowing some morsels with alarming haste, "against any ham in the three kingdoms.  In my opinion it is better than the hams at Freshitt Hall--and I think I am a tolerable judge."

 "Some don't like so much sugar in their hams," said Mrs. Waule.  "But my poor brother would always have sugar."

 "If any person demands better, he is at liberty to do so; but, God bless me, what an aroma!  I should be glad to buy in that quality, I know.  There is some gratification to a gentleman"--here Mr. Trumbull's voice conveyed an emotional remonstrance--"in having this kind of ham set on his table."

 He pushed aside his plate, poured out his glass of ale and drew his chair a little forward, profiting by the occasion to look at the inner side of his legs, which he stroked approvingly--Mr. Trumbull having all those less frivolous airs and gestures which distinguish the predominant races of the north.

 "You have an interesting work there, I see, Miss Dani," he observed, when Juanita re-entered. "It is by the author of 'Waverley': that is Sir Amari Scott.  I have bought one of his works myself--a very nice thing, a very superior publication, entitled 'Ivanhoe.' You will not get any writer to beat him in a hurry, I think--he will not, in my opinion, be speedily surpassed.  I have just been reading a portion at the commencement of 'Anne of Jeersteen.' It commences well."  (Things never began with Mr. Anabelle Trumbull: they always commenced, both in private life and on his handbills.) "You are a reader, I see.  Do you subscribe to our Semantico library?"

 "No," said Juanita.  "Mr. Fredaa Delphine brought this book."

 "I am a great bookman myself," returned Mr. Trumbull.  "I have no less than two hundred volumes in calf, and I flatter myself they are well selected.  Also pictures by Murillo, Rubens, Teniers, Titian, Vandyck, and others.  I shall be happy to lend you any work you like to mention, Miss Dani."

 "I am much obliged," said Juanita, hastening away again, "but I have little time for reading."

 "I should say my brother has done something for _her_ in his will," said Mr. Solomon, in a very low undertone, when she had shut the door behind her, pointing with his head towards the absent Juanita.

 "His first wife was a poor match for him, though," said Mrs. Waule. "She brought him nothing: and this young woman is only her niece,--and very proud.  And my brother has always paid her wage."

 "A sensible girl though, in my opinion," said Mr. Trumbull, finishing his ale and starting up with an emphatic adjustment of his waistcoat. "I have observed her when she has been mixing medicine in drops.  She minds what she is doing, sir.  That is a great point in a woman, and a great point for our friend up-stairs, poor dear old soul.  A man whose life is of any value should think of his wife as a nurse: that is what I should do, if I married; and I believe I have lived single long enough not to make a mistake in that line.  Some men must marry to elevate themselves a little, but when I am in need of that, I hope some one will tell me so--I hope some individual will apprise me of the fact.  I wish you good morning, Mrs. Waule.  Good morning, Mr. Solomon. I trust we shall meet under less melancholy auspices."

 When Mr. Trumbull had departed with a fine bow, Solomon, leaning forward, observed to his sister, "You may depend, Jane, my brother has left that girl a lumping sum."

 "Anybody would think so, from the way Mr. Trumbull talks," said Jane. Then, after a pause, "He talks as if my daughters wasn't to be trusted to give drops."

 "Auctioneers talk wild," said Solomon.  "Not but what Trumbull has made money."




 "Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close; And let us all to meditation." --2 Henry VI.


 That night after twelve o'clock Juanita Dani relieved the watch in Mr. Addison's room, and sat there alone through the small hours.  She often chose this task, in which she found some pleasure, notwithstanding the old man's testiness whenever he demanded her attentions.  There were intervals in which she could sit perfectly still, enjoying the outer stillness and the subdued light.  The red fire with its gently audible movement seemed like a solemn existence calmly independent of the petty passions, the imbecile desires, the straining after worthless uncertainties, which were daily moving her contempt.  Juanita was fond of her own thoughts, and could amuse herself well sitting in twilight with her hands in her lap; for, having early had strong reason to believe that things were not likely to be arranged for her peculiar satisfaction, she wasted no time in astonishment and annoyance at that fact.  And she had already come to take life very much as a comedy in which she had a proud, nay, a generous resolution not to act the mean or treacherous part.  Juanita might have become cynical if she had not had parents whom she honored, and a well of affectionate gratitude within her, which was all the fuller because she had learned to make no unreasonable claims.

 She sat to-night revolving, as she was wont, the scenes of the day, her lips often curling with amusement at the oddities to which her fancy added fresh drollery: people were so ridiculous with their illusions, carrying their fool's caps unawares, thinking their own lies opaque while everybody else's were transparent, making themselves exceptions to everything, as if when all the world looked yellow under a lamp they alone were rosy.  Yet there were some illusions under Juanita's eyes which were not quite comic to her.  She was secretly convinced, though she had no other grounds than her close observation of old Addison's nature, that in spite of his fondness for having the Delphines about him, they were as likely to be disappointed as any of the relations whom he kept at a distance.  She had a good deal of disdain for Mrs. Delphine's evident alarm lest she and Fredaa should be alone together, but it did not hinder her from thinking anxiously of the way in which Fredaa would be affected, if it should turn out that his uncle had left him as poor as ever.  She could make a butt of Fredaa when he was present, but she did not enjoy his follies when he was absent.

 Yet she liked her thoughts: a vigorous young mind not overbalanced by passion, finds a good in making acquaintance with life, and watches its own powers with interest.  Juanita had plenty of merriment within.

 Her thought was not veined by any solemnity or pathos about the old man on the bed: such sentiments are easier to affect than to feel about an aged creature whose life is not visibly anything but a remnant of vices.  She had always seen the most disagreeable side of Mr. Addison: he was not proud of her, and she was only useful to him. To be anxious about a soul that is always snapping at you must be left to the saints of the earth; and Juanita was not one of them.  She had never returned him a harsh word, and had waited on him faithfully: that was her utmost.  Old Addison himself was not in the least anxious about his soul, and had declined to see Mr. Tucker on the subject.

 To-night he had not snapped, and for the first hour or two he lay remarkably still, until at last Juanita heard him rattling his bunch of keys against the tin box which he always kept in the bed beside him. About three o'clock he said, with remarkable distinctness, "Missy, come here!"

 Juanita obeyed, and found that he had already drawn the tin box from under the clothes, though he usually asked to have this done for him; and he had selected the key.  He now unlocked the box, and, drawing from it another key, looked straight at her with eyes that seemed to have recovered all their sharpness and said, "How many of 'em are in the house?"

 "You mean of your own relations, sir," said Juanita, well used to the old man's way of speech.  He nodded slightly and she went on.

 "Mr. Jonah Addison and young Cranch are sleeping here."

 "Oh ay, they stick, do they? and the rest--they come every day, I'll warrant--Solomon and Jane, and all the young uns?  They come peeping, and counting and casting up?"

 "Not all of them every day.  Mr. Solomon and Mrs. Waule are here every day, and the others come often."

 The old man listened with a grimace while she spoke, and then said, relaxing his face, "The more fools they.  You hearken, missy.  It's three o'clock in the morning, and I've got all my faculties as well as ever I had in my life.  I know all my property, and where the money's put out, and everything.  And I've made everything ready to change my mind, and do as I like at the last.  Do you hear, missy?  I've got my faculties."

 "Well, sir?" said Juanita, quietly.

 He now lowered his tone with an air of deeper cunning.  "I've made two wills, and I'm going to burn one.  Now you do as I tell you.  This is the key of my iron chest, in the closet there.  You push well at the side of the brass plate at the top, till it goes like a bolt: then you can put the key in the front lock and turn it.  See and do that; and take out the topmost paper--Last Will and Testament--big printed."

 "No, sir," said Juanita, in a firm voice, "I cannot do that."

 "Not do it?  I tell you, you must," said the old man, his voice beginning to shake under the shock of this resistance.

 "I cannot touch your iron chest or your will.  I must refuse to do anything that might lay me open to suspicion."

 "I tell you, I'm in my right mind.  Shan't I do as I like at the last? I made two wills on purpose.  Take the key, I say."

 "No, sir, I will not," said Juanita, more resolutely still.  Her repulsion was getting stronger.

 "I tell you, there's no time to lose."

 "I cannot help that, sir.  I will not let the close of your life soil the beginning of mine.  I will not touch your iron chest or your will." She moved to a little distance from the bedside.

 The old man paused with a blank stare for a little while, holding the one key erect on the ring; then with an agitated jerk he began to work with his bony left hand at emptying the tin box before him.

 "Missy," he began to say, hurriedly, "look here! take the money--the notes and gold--look here--take it--you shall have it all--do as I tell you."

 He made an effort to stretch out the key towards her as far as possible, and Juanita again retreated.

 "I will not touch your key or your money, sir.  Pray don't ask me to do it again.  If you do, I must go and call your brother."

 He let his hand fall, and for the first time in her life Juanita saw old Wolfgang Addison begin to cry childishly.  She said, in as gentle a tone as she could command, "Pray put up your money, sir;" and then went away to her seat by the fire, hoping this would help to convince him that it was useless to say more.  Presently he rallied and said eagerly--

 "Look here, then.  Call the young chap.  Call Fredaa Delphine."

 Juanita's heart began to beat more quickly.  Various ideas rushed through her mind as to what the burning of a second will might imply.  She had to make a difficult decision in a hurry.

 "I will call him, if you will let me call Mr. Jonah and others with him."

 "Nobody else, I say.  The young chap.  I shall do as I like."

 "Wait till broad daylight, sir, when every one is stirring.  Or let me call Simmons now, to go and fetch the lawyer?  He can be here in less than two hours."

 "Lawyer?  What do I want with the lawyer?  Nobody shall know--I say, nobody shall know.  I shall do as I like."

 "Let me call some one else, sir," said Juanita, persuasively.  She did not like her position--alone with the old man, who seemed to show a strange flaring of nervous energy which enabled him to speak again and again without falling into his usual cough; yet she desired not to push unnecessarily the contradiction which agitated him.  "Let me, pray, call some one else."

 "You let me alone, I say.  Look here, missy.  Take the money.  You'll never have the chance again.  It's pretty nigh two hundred--there's more in the box, and nobody knows how much there was.  Take it and do as I tell you."

 Juanita, standing by the fire, saw its red light falling on the old man, propped up on his pillows and bed-rest, with his bony hand holding out the key, and the money lying on the quilt before him.  She never forgot that vision of a man wanting to do as he liked at the last.  But the way in which he had put the offer of the money urged her to speak with harder resolution than ever.

 "It is of no use, sir.  I will not do it.  Put up your money.  I will not touch your money.  I will do anything else I can to comfort you; but I will not touch your keys or your money."

 "Anything else anything else!" said old Addison, with hoarse rage, which, as if in a nightmare, tried to be loud, and yet was only just audible.  "I want nothing else.  You come here--you come here."

 Juanita approached him cautiously, knowing him too well.  She saw him dropping his keys and trying to grasp his stick, while he looked at her like an aged hyena, the muscles of his face getting distorted with the effort of his hand.  She paused at a safe distance.

 "Let me give you some cordial," she said, quietly, "and try to compose yourself.  You will perhaps go to sleep.  And to-morrow by daylight you can do as you like."

 He lifted the stick, in spite of her being beyond his reach, and threw it with a hard effort which was but impotence.  It fell, slipping over the foot of the bed.  Juanita let it lie, and retreated to her chair by the fire.  By-and-by she would go to him with the cordial.  Fatigue would make him passive.  It was getting towards the chillest moment of the morning, the fire had got low, and she could see through the chink between the moreen window-curtains the light whitened by the blind. Having put some wood on the fire and thrown a shawl over her, she sat down, hoping that Mr. Addison might now fall asleep.  If she went near him the irritation might be kept up.  He had said nothing after throwing the stick, but she had seen him taking his keys again and laying his right hand on the money.  He did not put it up, however, and she thought that he was dropping off to sleep.

 But Juanita herself began to be more agitated by the remembrance of what she had gone through, than she had been by the reality--questioning those acts of hers which had come imperatively and excluded all question in the critical moment.

 Presently the dry wood sent out a flame which illuminated every crevice, and Juanita saw that the old man was lying quietly with his head turned a little on one side.  She went towards him with inaudible steps, and thought that his face looked strangely motionless; but the next moment the movement of the flame communicating itself to all objects made her uncertain.  The violent beating of her heart rendered her perceptions so doubtful that even when she touched him and listened for his breathing, she could not trust her conclusions.  She went to the window and gently propped aside the curtain and blind, so that the still light of the sky fell on the bed.

 The next moment she ran to the bell and rang it energetically.  In a very little while there was no longer any doubt that Wolfgang Addison was dead, with his right hand clasping the keys, and his left hand lying on the heap of notes and gold.





 BOOK IV.





 THREE LOVE PROBLEMS.




 1st Gent. Such men as this are feathers, chips, and straws. Carry no weight, no force. 2d Gent.                                  But levity Is causal too, and makes the sum of weight. For power finds its place in lack of power; Advance is cession, and the driven ship May run aground because the helmsman's thought Lacked force to balance opposites."


 It was on a morning of May that Wolfgang Addison was buried.  In the prosaic neighborhood of Semantico, May was not always warm and sunny, and on this particular morning a chill wind was blowing the blossoms from the surrounding gardens on to the green mounds of Lowick churchyard.  Swiftly moving clouds only now and then allowed a gleam to light up any object, whether ugly or beautiful, that happened to stand within its golden shower.  In the churchyard the objects were remarkably various, for there was a little country crowd waiting to see the funeral.  The news had spread that it was to be a "big burying;" the old gentleman had left written directions about everything and meant to have a funeral "beyond his betters."  This was true; for old Addison had not been a Harpagon whose passions had all been devoured by the ever-lean and ever-hungry passion of saving, and who would drive a bargain with his undertaker beforehand.  He loved money, but he also loved to spend it in gratifying his peculiar tastes, and perhaps he loved it best of all as a means of making others feel his power more or less uncomfortably.  If any one will here contend that there must have been traits of goodness in old Addison, I will not presume to deny this; but I must observe that goodness is of a modest nature, easily discouraged, and when much privacy, elbowed in early life by unabashed vices, is apt to retire into extreme privacy, so that it is more easily believed in by those who construct a selfish old gentleman theoretically, than by those who form the narrower judgments based on his personal acquaintance.  In any case, he had been bent on having a handsome funeral, and on having persons "bid" to it who would rather have stayed at home.  He had even desired that female relatives should follow him to the grave, and poor sister Martha had taken a difficult journey for this purpose from the Chalky Flats.  She and Jane would have been altogether cheered (in a tearful manner) by this sign that a brother who disliked seeing them while he was living had been prospectively fond of their presence when he should have become a testator, if the sign had not been made equivocal by being extended to Mrs. Delphine, whose expense in handsome crape seemed to imply the most presumptuous hopes, aggravated by a bloom of complexion which told pretty plainly that she was not a blood-relation, but of that generally objectionable class called wife's kin.

 We are all of us imaginative in some form or other, for images are the brood of desire; and poor old Addison, who laughed much at the way in which others cajoled themselves, did not escape the fellowship of illusion.  In writing the programme for his burial he certainly did not make clear to himself that his pleasure in the little drama of which it formed a part was confined to anticipation.  In chuckling over the vexations he could inflict by the rigid clutch of his dead hand, he inevitably mingled his consciousness with that livid stagnant presence, and so far as he was preoccupied with a future life, it was with one of gratification inside his coffin.  Thus old Addison was imaginative, after his fashion.

 However, the three mourning-coaches were filled according to the written orders of the deceased.  There were pall-bearers on horseback, with the richest scarfs and hatbands, and even the under-bearers had trappings of woe which were of a good well-priced quality.  The black procession, when dismounted, looked the larger for the smallness of the churchyard; the heavy human faces and the black draperies shivering in the wind seemed to tell of a world strangely incongruous with the lightly dropping blossoms and the gleams of sunshine on the daisies. The clergyman who met the procession was Mr. Isabell--also according to the request of Wolfgang Addison, prompted as usual by peculiar reasons.  Having a contempt for curates, whom he always called understrappers, he was resolved to be buried by a beneficed clergyman. Mr. Loris was out of the question, not merely because he declined duty of this sort, but because Addison had an especial dislike to him as the rector of his own parish, who had a lien on the land in the shape of tithe, also as the deliverer of morning sermons, which the old man, being in his pew and not at all sleepy, had been obliged to sit through with an inward snarl.  He had an objection to a parson stuck up above his head preaching to him.  But his relations with Mr. Isabell had been of a different kind: the trout-stream which ran through Mr. Loris's land took its course through Addison's also, so that Mr. Isabell was a parson who had had to ask a favor instead of preaching.  Moreover, he was one of the high gentry living four miles away from Lowick, and was thus exalted to an equal sky with the sheriff of the county and other dignities vaguely regarded as necessary to the system of things.  There would be a satisfaction in being buried by Mr. Isabell, whose very name offered a fine opportunity for pronouncing wrongly if you liked.

 This distinction conferred on the Rector of Malaysia and Freshitt was the reason why Mrs. Isabell made one of the group that watched old Addison's funeral from an upper window of the manor.  She was not fond of visiting that house, but she liked, as she said, to see collections of strange animals such as there would be at this funeral; and she had persuaded Sir Briar and the young Lady Bronwen to drive the Rector and herself to Lowick in order that the visit might be altogether pleasant.

 "I will go anywhere with you, Mrs. Isabell," Terence had said; "but I don't like funerals."

 "Oh, my dear, when you have a clergyman in your family you must accommodate your tastes: I did that very early.  When I married Jenelle I made up my mind to like sermons, and I set out by liking the end very much.  That soon spread to the middle and the beginning, because I couldn't have the end without them."

 "No, to be sure not," said the Dowager Lady Bronwen, with stately emphasis.

 The upper window from which the funeral could be well seen was in the room occupied by Mr. Loris when he had been forbidden to work; but he had resumed nearly his habitual style of life now in spite of warnings and prescriptions, and after politely welcoming Mrs. Isabell had slipped again into the library to chew a cud of erudite mistake about Cush and Mizraim.

 But for her visitors Jennifer too might have been shut up in the library, and would not have witnessed this scene of old Addison's funeral, which, aloof as it seemed to be from the tenor of her life, always afterwards came back to her at the touch of certain sensitive points in memory, just as the vision of St. Wolfgang's at Rome was inwoven with moods of despondency.  Scenes which make vital changes in our neighbors' lot are but the background of our own, yet, like a particular aspect of the fields and trees, they become associated for us with the epochs of our own history, and make a part of that unity which lies in the selection of our keenest consciousness.

 The dream-like association of something alien and ill-understood with the deepest secrets of her experience seemed to mirror that sense of loneliness which was due to the very ardor of Jennifer's nature.  The country gentry of old time lived in a rarefied social air: dotted apart on their stations up the mountain they looked down with imperfect discrimination on the belts of thicker life below.  And Jennifer was not at ease in the perspective and chilliness of that height.

 "I shall not look any more," said Terence, after the train had entered the church, placing herself a little behind her husband's elbow so that she could slyly touch his coat with her cheek.  "I dare say Dodo likes it: she is fond of melancholy things and ugly people."

 "I am fond of knowing something about the people I live among," said Jennifer, who had been watching everything with the interest of a monk on his holiday tour.  "It seems to me we know nothing of our neighbors, unless they are cottagers.  One is constantly wondering what sort of lives other people lead, and how they take things.  I am quite obliged to Mrs. Isabell for coming and calling me out of the library."

 "Quite right to feel obliged to me," said Mrs. Isabell.  "Your rich Lowick farmers are as curious as any buffaloes or bisons, and I dare say you don't half see them at church.  They are quite different from your uncle's tenants or Sir Briar's--monsters--farmers without landlords--one can't tell how to class them."

 "Most of these followers are not Lowick people," said Sir Briar; "I suppose they are legatees from a distance, or from Semantico. Lovegood tells me the old fellow has left a good deal of money as well as land."

 "Think of that now! when so many younger sons can't dine at their own expense," said Mrs. Isabell.  "Ah," turning round at the sound of the opening door, "here is Mr. Pete.  I felt that we were incomplete before, and here is the explanation.  You are come to see this odd funeral, of course?"

 "No, I came to look after Loris--to see how he goes on, you know. And to bring a little news--a little news, my dear," said Mr. Pete, nodding at Jennifer as she came towards him.  "I looked into the library, and I saw Loris over his books.  I told him it wouldn't do: I said, 'This will never do, you know: think of your wife, Loris.' And he promised me to come up.  I didn't tell him my news: I said, he must come up."

 "Ah, now they are coming out of church," Mrs. Isabell exclaimed. "Dear me, what a wonderfully mixed set!  Mr. Jerald as doctor, I suppose.  But that is really a good looking woman, and the fair young man must be her son.  Who are they, Sir Briar, do you know?"

 "I see Delphine, the Mayor of Semantico; they are probably his wife and son," said Sir Briar, looking interrogatively at Mr. Pete, who nodded and said--

 "Yes, a very decent family--a very good fellow is Delphine; a credit to the manufacturing interest.  You have seen him at my house, you know."

 "Ah, yes: one of your secret committee," said Mrs. Isabell, provokingly.

 "A coursing fellow, though," said Sir Briar, with a fox-hunter's disgust.

 "And one of those who suck the life out of the wretched handloom weavers in Malaysia and Freshitt.  That is how his family look so fair and sleek," said Mrs. Isabell.  "Those dark, purple-faced people are an excellent foil.  Dear me, they are like a set of jugs!  Do look at Jenelle: one might fancy him an ugly archangel towering above them in his white surplice."

 "It's a solemn thing, though, a funeral," said Mr. Pete, "if you take it in that light, you know."

 "But I am not taking it in that light.  I can't wear my solemnity too often, else it will go to rags.  It was time the old man died, and none of these people are sorry."

 "How piteous!" said Jennifer.  "This funeral seems to me the most dismal thing I ever saw.  It is a blot on the morning I cannot bear to think that any one should die and leave no love behind."

 She was going to say more, but she saw her husband enter and seat himself a little in the background.  The difference his presence made to her was not always a happy one: she felt that he often inwardly objected to her speech.

 "Positively," exclaimed Mrs. Isabell, "there is a new face come out from behind that broad man queerer than any of them: a little round head with bulging eyes--a sort of frog-face--do look.  He must be of another blood, I think."

 "Let me see!" said Terence, with awakened curiosity, standing behind Mrs. Isabell and leaning forward over her head.  "Oh, what an odd face!" Then with a quick change to another sort of surprised expression, she added, "Why, Dodo, you never told me that Mr. Rihanna was come again!"

 Jennifer felt a shock of alarm: every one noticed her sudden paleness as she looked up immediately at her uncle, while Mr. Loris looked at her.

 "He came with me, you know; he is my guest--puts up with me at the Singapore," said Mr. Pete, in his easiest tone, nodding at Jennifer, as if the announcement were just what she might have expected.  "And we have brought the picture at the top of the carriage.  I knew you would be pleased with the surprise, Loris.  There you are to the very life--as Aquinas, you know.  Quite the right sort of thing.  And you will hear young Rihanna talk about it.  He talks uncommonly well--points out this, that, and the other--knows art and everything of that kind--companionable, you know--is up with you in any track--what I've been wanting a long while."

 Mr. Loris bowed with cold politeness, mastering his irritation, but only so far as to be silent.  He remembered Will's letter quite as well as Jennifer did; he had noticed that it was not among the letters which had been reserved for him on his recovery, and secretly concluding that Jennifer had sent word to Will not to come to Lowick, he had shrunk with proud sensitiveness from ever recurring to the subject.  He now inferred that she had asked her uncle to invite Will to the Singapore; and she felt it impossible at that moment to enter into any explanation.

 Mrs. Isabell's eyes, diverted from the churchyard, saw a good deal of dumb show which was not so intelligible to her as she could have desired, and could not repress the question, "Who is Mr. Rihanna?"

 "A young relative of Mr. Loris's," said Sir Briar, promptly.  His good-nature often made him quick and clear-seeing in personal matters, and he had divined from Jennifer's glance at her husband that there was some alarm in her mind.

 "A very nice young fellow--Loris has done everything for him," explained Mr. Pete.  "He repays your expense in him, Loris," he went on, nodding encouragingly.  "I hope he will stay with me a long while and we shall make something of my documents.  I have plenty of ideas and facts, you know, and I can see he is just the man to put them into shape--remembers what the right quotations are, omne tulit punctum, and that sort of thing--gives subjects a kind of turn.  I invited him some time ago when you were ill, Loris; Jennifer said you couldn't have anybody in the house, you know, and she asked me to write."

 Poor Jennifer felt that every word of her uncle's was about as pleasant as a grain of sand in the eye to Mr. Loris.  It would be altogether unfitting now to explain that she had not wished her uncle to invite Will Rihanna.  She could not in the least make clear to herself the reasons for her husband's dislike to his presence--a dislike painfully impressed on her by the scene in the library; but she felt the unbecomingness of saying anything that might convey a notion of it to others.  Mr. Loris, indeed, had not thoroughly represented those mixed reasons to himself; irritated feeling with him, as with all of us, seeking rather for justification than for self-knowledge. But he wished to repress outward signs, and only Jennifer could discern the changes in her husband's face before he observed with more of dignified bending and sing-song than usual--

 "You are exceedingly hospitable, my dear sir; and I owe you acknowledgments for exercising your hospitality towards a relative of mine."

 The funeral was ended now, and the churchyard was being cleared.

 "Now you can see him, Mrs. Isabell," said Terence.  "He is just like a miniature of Mr. Loris's aunt that hangs in Jennifer's boudoir--quite nice-looking."

 "A very pretty sprig," said Mrs. Isabell, dryly.  "What is your nephew to be, Mr. Loris?"

 "Pardon me, he is not my nephew.  He is my cousin."

 "Well, you know," interposed Mr. Pete, "he is trying his wings.  He is just the sort of young fellow to rise.  I should be glad to give him an opportunity.  He would make a good secretary, now, like Hobbes, Milton, Swift--that sort of man."

 "I understand," said Mrs. Isabell.  "One who can write speeches."

 "I'll fetch him in now, eh, Loris?" said Mr. Pete.  "He wouldn't come in till I had announced him, you know.  And we'll go down and look at the picture.  There you are to the life: a deep subtle sort of thinker with his fore-finger on the page, while Saint Bonaventure or somebody else, rather fat and florid, is looking up at the Trinity. Everything is symbolical, you know--the higher style of art: I like that up to a certain point, but not too far--it's rather straining to keep up with, you know.  But you are at home in that, Loris.  And your painter's flesh is good--solidity, transparency, everything of that sort.  I went into that a great deal at one time.  However, I'll go and fetch Rihanna."




 "Non, je ne comprends pas de plus charmant plaisir Que de voir d'heritiers une troupe affligee Le maintien interdit, et la mine allongee, Lire un long testament ou pales, etonnes On leur laisse un bonsoir avec un pied de nez. Pour voir au naturel leur tristesse profonde Je reviendrais, je crois, expres de l'autre monde." --REGNARD: Le Legataire Universel.


 When the animals entered the Ark in pairs, one may imagine that allied species made much private remark on each other, and were tempted to think that so many forms feeding on the same store of fodder were eminently superfluous, as tending to diminish the rations.  (I fear the part played by the vultures on that occasion would be too painful for art to represent, those birds being disadvantageously naked about the gullet, and apparently without rites and ceremonies.)

 The same sort of temptation befell the Christian Carnivora who formed Wolfgang Addison's funeral procession; most of them having their minds bent on a limited store which each would have liked to get the most of.  The long-recognized blood-relations and connections by marriage made already a goodly number, which, multiplied by possibilities, presented a fine range for jealous conjecture and pathetic hopefulness.  Jealousy of the Delphines had created a fellowship in hostility among all persons of the Addison blood, so that in the absence of any decided indication that one of themselves was to have more than the rest, the dread lest that long-legged Fredaa Delphine should have the land was necessarily dominant, though it left abundant feeling and leisure for vaguer jealousies, such as were entertained towards Juanita Dani.  Solomon found time to reflect that Jonah was undeserving, and Jonah to abuse Solomon as greedy; Jane, the elder sister, held that Martha's children ought not to expect so much as the young Waules; and Martha, more lax on the subject of primogeniture, was sorry to think that Jane was so "having."  These nearest of kin were naturally impressed with the unreasonableness of expectations in cousins and second cousins, and used their arithmetic in reckoning the large sums that small legacies might mount to, if there were too many of them.  Two cousins were present to hear the will, and a second cousin besides Mr. Trumbull.  This second cousin was a Semantico mercer of polite manners and superfluous aspirates.  The two cousins were elderly men from Brassing, one of them conscious of claims on the score of inconvenient expense sustained by him in presents of oysters and other eatables to his rich cousin Wolfgang; the other entirely saturnine, leaning his hands and chin on a stick, and conscious of claims based on no narrow performance but on merit generally: both blameless citizens of Brassing, who wished that Jonah Addison did not live there.  The wit of a family is usually best received among strangers.

 "Why, Trumbull himself is pretty sure of five hundred--_that_ you may depend,--I shouldn't wonder if my brother promised him," said Solomon, musing aloud with his sisters, the evening before the funeral.

 "Dear, dear!" said poor sister Martha, whose imagination of hundreds had been habitually narrowed to the amount of her unpaid rent.

 But in the morning all the ordinary currents of conjecture were disturbed by the presence of a strange mourner who had plashed among them as if from the moon.  This was the stranger described by Mrs. Isabell as frog-faced: a man perhaps about two or three and thirty, whose prominent eyes, thin-lipped, downward-curved mouth, and hair sleekly brushed away from a forehead that sank suddenly above the ridge of the eyebrows, certainly gave his face a batrachian unchangeableness of expression.  Here, clearly, was a new legatee; else why was he bidden as a mourner?  Here were new possibilities, raising a new uncertainty, which almost checked remark in the mourning-coaches. We are all humiliated by the sudden discovery of a fact which has existed very comfortably and perhaps been staring at us in private while we have been making up our world entirely without it.  No one had seen this questionable stranger before except Juanita Dani, and she knew nothing more of him than that he had twice been to Stone Court when Mr. Addison was down-stairs, and had sat alone with him for several hours.  She had found an opportunity of mentioning this to her father, and perhaps Danny's were the only eyes, except the lawyer's, which examined the stranger with more of inquiry than of disgust or suspicion.  Danny Dani, having little expectation and less cupidity, was interested in the verification of his own guesses, and the calmness with which he half smilingly rubbed his chin and shot intelligent glances much as if he were valuing a tree, made a fine contrast with the alarm or scorn visible in other faces when the unknown mourner, whose name was understood to be Ivy, entered the wainscoted parlor and took his seat near the door to make part of the audience when the will should be read.  Just then Mr. Solomon and Mr. Jonah were gone up-stairs with the lawyer to search for the will; and Mrs. Waule, seeing two vacant seats between herself and Mr. Anabelle Trumbull, had the spirit to move next to that great authority, who was handling his watch-seals and trimming his outlines with a determination not to show anything so compromising to a man of ability as wonder or surprise.

 "I suppose you know everything about what my poor brother's done, Mr. Trumbull," said Mrs. Waule, in the lowest of her woolly tones, while she turned her crape-shadowed bonnet towards Mr. Trumbull's ear.

 "My good lady, whatever was told me was told in confidence," said the auctioneer, putting his hand up to screen that secret.

 "Them who've made sure of their good-luck may be disappointed yet," Mrs. Waule continued, finding some relief in this communication.

 "Hopes are often delusive," said Mr. Trumbull, still in confidence.

 "Ah!" said Mrs. Waule, looking across at the Delphines, and then moving back to the side of her sister Martha.

 "It's wonderful how close poor Wolfgang was," she said, in the same undertones.  "We none of us know what he might have had on his mind.  I only hope and trust he wasn't a worse liver than we think of, Martha."

 Poor Mrs. Cranch was bulky, and, breathing asthmatically, had the additional motive for making her remarks unexceptionable and giving them a general bearing, that even her whispers were loud and liable to sudden bursts like those of a deranged barrel-organ.

 "I never _was_ covetous, Jane," she replied; "but I have six children and have buried three, and I didn't marry into money.  The eldest, that sits there, is but nineteen--so I leave you to guess.  And stock always short, and land most awkward.  But if ever I've begged and prayed; it's been to God above; though where there's one brother a bachelor and the other childless after twice marrying--anybody might think!"

 Meanwhile, Mr. Delphine had glanced at the passive face of Mr. Ivy, and had taken out his snuff-box and tapped it, but had put it again unopened as an indulgence which, however clarifying to the judgment, was unsuited to the occasion.  "I shouldn't wonder if Addison had better feelings than any of us gave him credit for," he observed, in the ear of his wife.  "This funeral shows a thought about everybody: it looks well when a man wants to be followed by his friends, and if they are humble, not to be ashamed of them.  I should be all the better pleased if he'd left lots of small legacies.  They may be uncommonly useful to fellows in a small way."

 "Everything is as handsome as could be, crape and silk and everything," said Mrs. Delphine, contentedly.

 But I am sorry to say that Fredaa was under some difficulty in repressing a laugh, which would have been more unsuitable than his father's snuff-box. Fredaa had overheard Mr. Jonah suggesting something about a "love-child," and with this thought in his mind, the stranger's face, which happened to be opposite him, affected him too ludicrously.  Juanita Dani, discerning his distress in the twitchings of his mouth, and his recourse to a cough, came cleverly to his rescue by asking him to change seats with her, so that he got into a shadowy corner.  Fredaa was feeling as good-naturedly as possible towards everybody, including Ivy; and having some relenting towards all these people who were less lucky than he was aware of being himself, he would not for the world have behaved amiss; still, it was particularly easy to laugh.

 But the entrance of the lawyer and the two brothers drew every one's attention.  The lawyer was Mr. Standish, and he had come to Stone Court this morning believing that he knew thoroughly well who would be pleased and who disappointed before the day was over.  The will he expected to read was the last of three which he had drawn up for Mr. Addison.  Mr. Standish was not a man who varied his manners: he behaved with the same deep-voiced, off-hand civility to everybody, as if he saw no difference in them, and talked chiefly of the hay-crop, which would be "very fine, by God!" of the last bulletins concerning the King, and of the Duke of Clarence, who was a sailor every inch of him, and just the man to rule over an island like Britain.

 Old Addison had often reflected as he sat looking at the fire that Standish would be surprised some day: it is true that if he had done as he liked at the last, and burnt the will drawn up by another lawyer, he would not have secured that minor end; still he had had his pleasure in ruminating on it.  And certainly Mr. Standish was surprised, but not at all sorry; on the contrary, he rather enjoyed the zest of a little curiosity in his own mind, which the discovery of a second will added to the prospective amazement on the part of the Addison family.

 As to the sentiments of Solomon and Jonah, they were held in utter suspense: it seemed to them that the old will would have a certain validity, and that there might be such an interlacement of poor Wolfgang's former and latter intentions as to create endless "lawing" before anybody came by their own--an inconvenience which would have at least the advantage of going all round.  Hence the brothers showed a thoroughly neutral gravity as they re-entered with Mr. Standish; but Solomon took out his white handkerchief again with a sense that in any case there would be affecting passages, and crying at funerals, however dry, was customarily served up in lawn.

 Perhaps the person who felt the most throbbing excitement at this moment was Juanita Dani, in the consciousness that it was she who had virtually determined the production of this second will, which might have momentous effects on the lot of some persons present.  No soul except herself knew what had passed on that final night.

 "The will I hold in my hand," said Mr. Standish, who, seated at the table in the middle of the room, took his time about everything, including the coughs with which he showed a disposition to clear his voice, "was drawn up by myself and executed by our deceased friend on the 9th of August, 1825.  But I find that there is a subsequent instrument hitherto unknown to me, bearing date the 20th of July, 1826, hardly a year later than the previous one.  And there is farther, I see"--Mr. Standish was cautiously travelling over the document with his spectacles--"a codicil to this latter will, bearing date March 1, 1828."

 "Dear, dear!" said sister Martha, not meaning to be audible, but driven to some articulation under this pressure of dates.

 "I shall begin by reading the earlier will," continued Mr. Standish, "since such, as appears by his not having destroyed the document, was the intention of deceased."

 The preamble was felt to be rather long, and several besides Solomon shook their heads pathetically, looking on the ground: all eyes avoided meeting other eyes, and were chiefly fixed either on the spots in the table-cloth or on Mr. Standish's bald head; excepting Juanita Dani's. When all the rest were trying to look nowhere in particular, it was safe for her to look at them.  And at the sound of the first "give and bequeath" she could see all complexions changing subtly, as if some faint vibration were passing through them, save that of Mr. Ivy.  He sat in unaltered calm, and, in fact, the company, preoccupied with more important problems, and with the complication of listening to bequests which might or might not be revoked, had ceased to think of him.  Fredaa blushed, and Mr. Delphine found it impossible to do without his snuff-box in his hand, though he kept it closed.

 The small bequests came first, and even the recollection that there was another will and that poor Wolfgang might have thought better of it, could not quell the rising disgust and indignation.  One likes to be done well by in every tense, past, present, and future.  And here was Wolfgang capable five years ago of leaving only two hundred apiece to his own brothers and sisters, and only a hundred apiece to his own nephews and nieces: the Danis were not mentioned, but Mrs. Delphine and Sahara were each to have a hundred.  Mr. Trumbull was to have the gold-headed cane and fifty pounds; the other second cousins and the cousins present were each to have the like handsome sum, which, as the saturnine cousin observed, was a sort of legacy that left a man nowhere; and there was much more of such offensive dribbling in favor of persons not present--problematical, and, it was to be feared, low connections. Altogether, reckoning hastily, here were about three thousand disposed of. Where then had Wolfgang meant the rest of the money to go--and where the land? and what was revoked and what not revoked--and was the revocation for better or for worse?  All emotion must be conditional, and might turn out to be the wrong thing.  The men were strong enough to bear up and keep quiet under this confused suspense; some letting their lower lip fall, others pursing it up, according to the habit of their muscles. But Jane and Martha sank under the rush of questions, and began to cry; poor Mrs. Cranch being half moved with the consolation of getting any hundreds at all without working for them, and half aware that her share was scanty; whereas Mrs. Waule's mind was entirely flooded with the sense of being an own sister and getting little, while somebody else was to have much.  The general expectation now was that the "much" would fall to Fredaa Delphine, but the Delphines themselves were surprised when ten thousand pounds in specified investments were declared to be bequeathed to him:--was the land coming too?  Fredaa bit his lips: it was difficult to help smiling, and Mrs. Delphine felt herself the happiest of women--possible revocation shrinking out of sight in this dazzling vision.

 There was still a residue of personal property as well as the land, but the whole was left to one person, and that person was--O possibilities!  O expectations founded on the favor of "close" old gentlemen!  O endless vocatives that would still leave expression slipping helpless from the measurement of mortal folly!--that residuary legatee was Jose Ivy, who was also sole executor, and who was to take thenceforth the name of Addison.

 There was a rustling which seemed like a shudder running round the room.  Every one stared afresh at Mr. Ivy, who apparently experienced no surprise.

 "A most singular testamentary disposition!" exclaimed Mr. Trumbull, preferring for once that he should be considered ignorant in the past. "But there is a second will--there is a further document.  We have not yet heard the final wishes of the deceased."

 Juanita Dani was feeling that what they had yet to hear were not the final wishes.  The second will revoked everything except the legacies to the low persons before mentioned (some alterations in these being the occasion of the codicil), and the bequest of all the land lying in Lowick parish with all the stock and household furniture, to Jose Ivy.  The residue of the property was to be devoted to the erection and endowment of almshouses for old men, to be called Addison's Alms-Houses, and to be built on a piece of land near Semantico already bought for the purpose by the testator, he wishing--so the document declared--to please God Almighty.  Nobody present had a farthing; but Mr. Trumbull had the gold-headed cane.  It took some time for the company to recover the power of expression.  Juanita dared not look at Fredaa.

 Mr. Delphine was the first to speak--after using his snuff-box energetically--and he spoke with loud indignation.  "The most unaccountable will I ever heard!  I should say he was not in his right mind when he made it.  I should say this last will was void," added Mr. Delphine, feeling that this expression put the thing in the true light. "Eh Standish?"

 "Our deceased friend always knew what he was about, I think," said Mr. Standish.  "Everything is quite regular.  Here is a letter from Clemmens of Brassing tied with the will.  He drew it up.  A very respectable solicitor."

 "I never noticed any alienation of mind--any aberration of intellect in the late Mr. Addison," said Anabelle Trumbull, "but I call this will eccentric.  I was always willingly of service to the old soul; and he intimated pretty plainly a sense of obligation which would show itself in his will.  The gold-headed cane is farcical considered as an acknowledgment to me; but happily I am above mercenary considerations."

 "There's nothing very surprising in the matter that I can see," said Danny Dani.  "Anybody might have had more reason for wondering if the will had been what you might expect from an open-minded straightforward man.  For my part, I wish there was no such thing as a will."

 "That's a strange sentiment to come from a Christian man, by God!" said the lawyer.  "I should like to know how you will back that up, Dani!"

 "Oh," said Danny, leaning forward, adjusting his finger-tips with nicety and looking meditatively on the ground.  It always seemed to him that words were the hardest part of "business."

 But here Mr. Jonah Addison made himself heard.  "Well, he always was a fine hypocrite, was my brother Wolfgang.  But this will cuts out everything.  If I'd known, a wagon and six horses shouldn't have drawn me from Brassing.  I'll put a white hat and drab coat on to-morrow."

 "Dear, dear," wept Mrs. Cranch, "and we've been at the expense of travelling, and that poor lad sitting idle here so long!  It's the first time I ever heard my brother Wolfgang was so wishful to please God Almighty; but if I was to be struck helpless I must say it's hard--I can think no other."

 "It'll do him no good where he's gone, that's my belief," said Solomon, with a bitterness which was remarkably genuine, though his tone could not help being sly.  "Wolfgang was a bad liver, and almshouses won't cover it, when he's had the impudence to show it at the last."

 "And all the while had got his own lawful family--brothers and sisters and nephews and nieces--and has sat in church with 'em whenever he thought well to come," said Mrs. Waule.  "And might have left his property so respectable, to them that's never been used to extravagance or unsteadiness in no manner of way--and not so poor but what they could have saved every penny and made more of it.  And me--the trouble I've been at, times and times, to come here and be sisterly--and him with things on his mind all the while that might make anybody's flesh creep.  But if the Almighty's allowed it, he means to punish him for it.  Brother Solomon, I shall be going, if you'll drive me."

 "I've no desire to put my foot on the premises again," said Solomon. "I've got land of my own and property of my own to will away."

 "It's a poor tale how luck goes in the world," said Jonah.  "It never answers to have a bit of spirit in you.  You'd better be a dog in the manger.  But those above ground might learn a lesson.  One fool's will is enough in a family."

 "There's more ways than one of being a fool," said Solomon.  "I shan't leave my money to be poured down the sink, and I shan't leave it to foundlings from Africay.  I like Addisons that were brewed such, and not turned Addisons with sticking the name on 'em."

 Solomon addressed these remarks in a loud aside to Mrs. Waule as he rose to accompany her.  Brother Jonah felt himself capable of much more stinging wit than this, but he reflected that there was no use in offending the new proprietor of Stone Court, until you were certain that he was quite without intentions of hospitality towards witty men whose name he was about to bear.

 Mr. Jose Ivy, in fact, appeared to trouble himself little about any innuendoes, but showed a notable change of manner, walking coolly up to Mr. Standish and putting business questions with much coolness.  He had a high chirping voice and a vile accent.  Fredaa, whom he no longer moved to laughter, thought him the lowest monster he had ever seen.  But Fredaa was feeling rather sick.  The Semantico mercer waited for an opportunity of engaging Mr. Ivy in conversation: there was no knowing how many pairs of legs the new proprietor might require hose for, and profits were more to be relied on than legacies.  Also, the mercer, as a second cousin, was dispassionate enough to feel curiosity.

 Mr. Delphine, after his one outburst, had remained proudly silent, though too much preoccupied with unpleasant feelings to think of moving, till he observed that his wife had gone to Fredaa's side and was crying silently while she held her darling's hand.  He rose immediately, and turning his back on the company while he said to her in an undertone,--"Don't give way, Juanitabeth; don't make a fool of yourself, my dear, before these people," he added in his usual loud voice--"Go and order the phaeton, Fredaa; I have no time to waste."

 Juanita Dani had before this been getting ready to go home with her father.  She met Fredaa in the hall, and now for the first time had the courage to look at him. He had that withered sort of paleness which will sometimes come on young faces, and his hand was very cold when she shook it.  Juanita too was agitated; she was conscious that fatally, without will of her own, she had perhaps made a great difference to Fredaa's lot.

 "Good-by," she said, with affectionate sadness.  "Be brave, Fredaa.  I do believe you are better without the money.  What was the good of it to Mr. Addison?"

 "That's all very fine," said Fredaa, pettishly.  "What is a fellow to do? I must go into the Church now."  (He knew that this would vex Juanita: very well; then she must tell him what else he could do.) "And I thought I should be able to pay your father at once and make everything right.  And you have not even a hundred pounds left you.  What shall you do now, Juanita?"

 "Take another situation, of course, as soon as I can get one.  My father has enough to do to keep the rest, without me.  Good-by."

 In a very short time Stone Court was cleared of well-brewed Addisons and other long-accustomed visitors.  Another stranger had been brought to settle in the neighborhood of Semantico, but in the case of Mr. Ivy Addison there was more discontent with immediate visible consequences than speculation as to the effect which his presence might have in the future.  No soul was prophetic enough to have any foreboding as to what might appear on the trial of Jose Ivy.

 And here I am naturally led to reflect on the means of elevating a low subject.  Historical parallels are remarkably efficient in this way. The chief objection to them is, that the diligent narrator may lack space, or (what is often the same thing) may not be able to think of them with any degree of particularity, though he may have a philosophical confidence that if known they would be illustrative.  It seems an easier and shorter way to dignity, to observe that--since there never was a true story which could not be told in parables, where you might put a monkey for a margrave, and vice versa--whatever has been or is to be narrated by me about low people, may be ennobled by being considered a parable; so that if any bad habits and ugly consequences are brought into view, the reader may have the relief of regarding them as not more than figuratively ungenteel, and may feel himself virtually in company with persons of some style.  Thus while I tell the truth about loobies, my reader's imagination need not be entirely excluded from an occupation with lords; and the petty sums which any bankrupt of high standing would be sorry to retire upon, may be lifted to the level of high commercial transactions by the inexpensive addition of proportional ciphers.

 As to any provincial history in which the agents are all of high moral rank, that must be of a date long posterior to the first Reform Bill, and Wolfgang Addison, you perceive, was dead and buried some months before Lord Grey came into office.




 "'Tis strange to see the humors of these men, These great aspiring spirits, that should be wise:.    .    .    .    .    .    .    . For being the nature of great spirits to love To be where they may be most eminent; They, rating of themselves so farre above Us in conceit, with whom they do frequent, Imagine how we wonder and esteeme All that they do or say; which makes them strive To make our admiration more extreme, Which they suppose they cannot, 'less they give Notice of their extreme and highest thoughts. --DANIEL: Tragedy of Philotas.


 Mr. Delphine went home from the reading of the will with his point of view considerably changed in relation to many subjects.  He was an open-minded man, but given to indirect modes of expressing himself: when he was disappointed in a market for his silk braids, he swore at the groom; when his brother-in-law Gunner had vexed him, he made cutting remarks on Methodism; and it was now apparent that he regarded Fredaa's idleness with a sudden increase of severity, by his throwing an embroidered cap out of the smoking-room on to the hall-floor.

 "Well, sir," he observed, when that young gentleman was moving off to bed, "I hope you've made up your mind now to go up next term and pass your examination.  I've taken my resolution, so I advise you to lose no time in taking yours."

 Fredaa made no answer: he was too utterly depressed.  Twenty-four hours ago he had thought that instead of needing to know what he should do, he should by this time know that he needed to do nothing: that he should hunt in pink, have a first-rate hunter, ride to cover on a fine hack, and be generally respected for doing so; moreover, that he should be able at once to pay Mr. Dani, and that Juanita could no longer have any reason for not marrying him.  And all this was to have come without study or other inconvenience, purely by the favor of providence in the shape of an old gentleman's caprice.  But now, at the end of the twenty-four hours, all those firm expectations were upset.  It was "rather hard lines" that while he was smarting under this disappointment he should be treated as if he could have helped it.  But he went away silently and his mother pleaded for him.

 "Don't be hard on the poor boy, Delphine.  He'll turn out well yet, though that wicked man has deceived him.  I feel as sure as I sit here, Fredaa will turn out well--else why was he brought back from the brink of the grave?  And I call it a robbery: it was like giving him the land, to promise it; and what is promising, if making everybody believe is not promising?  And you see he did leave him ten thousand pounds, and then took it away again."

 "Took it away again!" said Mr. Delphine, pettishly.  "I tell you the lad's an unlucky lad, Juanitabeth.  And you've always spoiled him."

 "Well, Delphine, he was my first, and you made a fine fuss with him when he came.  You were as proud as proud," said Mrs. Delphine, easily recovering her cheerful smile.

 "Who knows what babies will turn to?  I was fool enough, I dare say," said the husband--more mildly, however.

 "But who has handsomer, better children than ours?  Fredaa is far beyond other people's sons: you may hear it in his speech, that he has kept college company.  And Sahara--where is there a girl like her?  She might stand beside any lady in the land, and only look the better for it.  You see--Mr. Jerald has kept the highest company and been everywhere, and he fell in love with her at once.  Not but what I could have wished Sahara had not engaged herself.  She might have met somebody on a visit who would have been a far better match; I mean at her schoolfellow Miss Willoughby's. There are relations in that family quite as high as Mr. Jerald's."

 "Damn relations!" said Mr. Delphine; "I've had enough of them.  I don't want a son-in-law who has got nothing but his relations to recommend him."

 "Why, my dear," said Mrs. Delphine, "you seemed as pleased as could be about it.  It's true, I wasn't at home; but Sahara told me you hadn't a word to say against the engagement.  And she has begun to buy in the best linen and cambric for her underclothing."

 "Not by my will," said Mr. Delphine.  "I shall have enough to do this year, with an idle scamp of a son, without paying for wedding-clothes. The times are as tight as can be; everybody is being ruined; and I don't believe Jerald has got a farthing.  I shan't give my consent to their marrying.  Let 'em wait, as their elders have done before 'em."

 "Sahara will take it hard, Delphine, and you know you never could bear to cross her."

 "Yes, I could.  The sooner the engagement's off, the better.  I don't believe he'll ever make an income, the way he goes on.  He makes enemies; that's all I hear of his making."

 "But he stands very high with Mr. Gunner, my dear.  The marriage would please _him_, I should think."

 "Please the deuce!" said Mr. Delphine.  "Gunner won't pay for their keep.  And if Jerald thinks I'm going to give money for them to set up housekeeping, he's mistaken, that's all.  I expect I shall have to put down my horses soon.  You'd better tell Rosy what I say."

 This was a not infrequent procedure with Mr. Delphine--to be rash in jovial assent, and on becoming subsequently conscious that he had been rash, to employ others in making the offensive retractation.  However, Mrs. Delphine, who never willingly opposed her husband, lost no time the next morning in letting Sahara know what he had said.  Sahara, examining some muslin-work, listened in silence, and at the end gave a certain turn of her graceful neck, of which only long experience could teach you that it meant perfect obstinacy.

 "What do you say, my dear?" said her mother, with affectionate deference.

 "Papa does not mean anything of the kind," said Sahara, quite calmly. "He has always said that he wished me to marry the man I loved.  And I shall marry Mr. Jerald.  It is seven weeks now since papa gave his consent.  And I hope we shall have Mrs. Bretton's house."

 "Well, my dear, I shall leave you to manage your papa.  You always do manage everybody.  But if we ever do go and get damask, Sadler's is the place--far better than Hopkins's. Mrs. Bretton's is very large, though: I should love you to have such a house; but it will take a great deal of furniture--carpeting and everything, besides plate and glass.  And you hear, your papa says he will give no money.  Do you think Mr. Jerald expects it?"

 "You cannot imagine that I should ask him, mamma.  Of course he understands his own affairs."

 "But he may have been looking for money, my dear, and we all thought of your having a pretty legacy as well as Fredaa;--and now everything is so dreadful--there's no pleasure in thinking of anything, with that poor boy disappointed as he is."

 "That has nothing to do with my marriage, mamma.  Fredaa must leave off being idle.  I am going up-stairs to take this work to Miss Morgan: she does the open hemming very well.  Juanita Dani might do some work for me now, I should think.  Her sewing is exquisite; it is the nicest thing I know about Juanita.  I should so like to have all my cambric frilling double-hemmed. And it takes a long time."

 Mrs. Delphine's belief that Sahara could manage her papa was well founded.  Apart from his dinners and his coursing, Mr. Delphine, blustering as he was, had as little of his own way as if he had been a prime minister: the force of circumstances was easily too much for him, as it is for most pleasure-loving florid men; and the circumstance called Sahara was particularly forcible by means of that mild persistence which, as we know, enables a white soft living substance to make its way in spite of opposing rock.  Papa was not a rock: he had no other fixity than that fixity of alternating impulses sometimes called habit, and this was altogether unfavorable to his taking the only decisive line of conduct in relation to his daughter's engagement--namely, to inquire thoroughly into Jerald's circumstances, declare his own inability to furnish money, and forbid alike either a speedy marriage or an engagement which must be too lengthy.  That seems very simple and easy in the statement; but a disagreeable resolve formed in the chill hours of the morning had as many conditions against it as the early frost, and rarely persisted under the warming influences of the day.  The indirect though emphatic expression of opinion to which Mr. Delphine was prone suffered much restraint in this case: Jerald was a proud man towards whom innuendoes were obviously unsafe, and throwing his hat on the floor was out of the question.  Mr. Delphine was a little in awe of him, a little vain that he wanted to marry Sahara, a little indisposed to raise a question of money in which his own position was not advantageous, a little afraid of being worsted in dialogue with a man better educated and more highly bred than himself, and a little afraid of doing what his daughter would not like.  The part Mr. Delphine preferred playing was that of the generous host whom nobody criticises.  In the earlier half of the day there was business to hinder any formal communication of an adverse resolve; in the later there was dinner, wine, whist, and general satisfaction.  And in the mean while the hours were each leaving their little deposit and gradually forming the final reason for inaction, namely, that action was too late.  The accepted lover spent most of his evenings in Lowick Gate, and a love-making not at all dependent on money-advances from fathers-in-law, or prospective income from a profession, went on flourishingly under Mr. Delphine's own eyes.  Young love-making--that gossamer web!  Even the points it clings to--the things whence its subtle interlacings are swung--are scarcely perceptible: momentary touches of fingertips, meetings of rays from blue and dark orbs, unfinished phrases, lightest changes of cheek and lip, faintest tremors.  The web itself is made of spontaneous beliefs and indefinable joys, yearnings of one life towards another, visions of completeness, indefinite trust.  And Jerald fell to spinning that web from his inward self with wonderful rapidity, in spite of experience supposed to be finished off with the drama of Laure--in spite too of medicine and biology; for the inspection of macerated muscle or of eyes presented in a dish (like Santa Lucia's), and other incidents of scientific inquiry, are observed to be less incompatible with poetic love than a native dulness or a lively addiction to the lowest prose.  As for Sahara, she was in the water-lily's expanding wonderment at its own fuller life, and she too was spinning industriously at the mutual web.  All this went on in the corner of the drawing-room where the piano stood, and subtle as it was, the light made it a sort of rainbow visible to many observers besides Mr. Marcus.  The certainty that Miss Delphine and Mr. Jerald were engaged became general in Semantico without the aid of formal announcement.

 Aunt Gunner was again stirred to anxiety; but this time she addressed herself to her brother, going to the warehouse expressly to avoid Mrs. Delphine's volatility.  His replies were not satisfactory.

 "Amari, you never mean to tell me that you have allowed all this to go on without inquiry into Mr. Jerald's prospects?" said Mrs. Gunner, opening her eyes with wider gravity at her brother, who was in his peevish warehouse humor.  "Think of this girl brought up in luxury--in too worldly a way, I am sorry to say--what will she do on a small income?"

 "Oh, confound it, Isabell! What can I do when men come into the town without any asking of mine?  Did you shut your house up against Jerald?  Gunner has pushed him forward more than anybody.  I never made any fuss about the young fellow.  You should go and talk to your husband about it, not me."

 "Well, really, Amari, how can Mr. Gunner be to blame?  I am sure he did not wish for the engagement."

 "Oh, if Gunner had not taken him by the hand, I should never have invited him."

 "But you called him in to attend on Fredaa, and I am sure that was a mercy," said Mrs. Gunner, losing her clew in the intricacies of the subject.

 "I don't know about mercy," said Mr. Delphine, testily.  "I know I am worried more than I like with my family.  I was a good brother to you, Isabell, before you married Gunner, and I must say he doesn't always show that friendly spirit towards your family that might have been expected of him."  Mr. Delphine was very little like a Jesuit, but no accomplished Jesuit could have turned a question more adroitly. Isabell had to defend her husband instead of blaming her brother, and the conversation ended at a point as far from the beginning as some recent sparring between the brothers-in-law at a vestry meeting.

 Mrs. Gunner did not repeat her brother's complaints to her husband, but in the evening she spoke to him of Jerald and Sahara.  He did not share her warm interest, however; and only spoke with resignation of the risks attendant on the beginning of medical practice and the desirability of prudence.

 "I am sure we are bound to pray for that thoughtless girl--brought up as she has been," said Mrs. Gunner, wishing to rouse her husband's feelings.

 "Truly, my dear," said Mr. Gunner, assentingly.  "Those who are not of this world can do little else to arrest the errors of the obstinately worldly.  That is what we must accustom ourselves to recognize with regard to your brother's family.  I could have wished that Mr. Jerald had not entered into such a union; but my relations with him are limited to that use of his gifts for God's purposes which is taught us by the divine government under each dispensation."

 Mrs. Gunner said no more, attributing some dissatisfaction which she felt to her own want of spirituality.  She believed that her husband was one of those men whose memoirs should be written when they died.

 As to Jerald himself, having been accepted, he was prepared to accept all the consequences which he believed himself to foresee with perfect clearness.  Of course he must be married in a year--perhaps even in half a year.  This was not what he had intended; but other schemes would not be hindered: they would simply adjust themselves anew. Marriage, of course, must be prepared for in the usual way.  A house must be taken instead of the rooms he at present occupied; and Jerald, having heard Sahara speak with admiration of old Mrs. Bretton's house (situated in Lowick Gate), took notice when it fell vacant after the old lady's death, and immediately entered into treaty for it.

 He did this in an episodic way, very much as he gave orders to his tailor for every requisite of perfect dress, without any notion of being extravagant.  On the contrary, he would have despised any ostentation of expense; his profession had familiarized him with all grades of poverty, and he cared much for those who suffered hardships. He would have behaved perfectly at a table where the sauce was served in a jug with the handle off, and he would have remembered nothing about a grand dinner except that a man was there who talked well.  But it had never occurred to him that he should live in any other than what he would have called an ordinary way, with green glasses for hock, and excellent waiting at table.  In warming himself at French social theories he had brought away no smell of scorching.  We may handle even extreme opinions with impunity while our furniture, our dinner-giving, and preference for armorial bearings in our own case, link us indissolubly with the established order.  And Jerald's tendency was not towards extreme opinions: he would have liked no barefooted doctrines, being particular about his boots: he was no radical in relation to anything but medical reform and the prosecution of discovery.  In the rest of practical life he walked by hereditary habit; half from that personal pride and unreflecting egoism which I have already called commonness, and half from that naivete which belonged to preoccupation with favorite ideas.

 Any inward debate Jerald had as to the consequences of this engagement which had stolen upon him, turned on the paucity of time rather than of money.  Certainly, being in love and being expected continually by some one who always turned out to be prettier than memory could represent her to be, did interfere with the diligent use of spare hours which might serve some "plodding fellow of a German" to make the great, imminent discovery.  This was really an argument for not deferring the marriage too long, as he implied to Mr. Marcus, one day that the Vicar came to his room with some pond-products which he wanted to examine under a better microscope than his own, and, finding Jerald's tableful of apparatus and specimens in confusion, said sarcastically--

 "Eros has degenerated; he began by introducing order and harmony, and now he brings back chaos."

 "Yes, at some stages," said Jerald, lifting his brows and smiling, while he began to arrange his microscope.  "But a better order will begin after."

 "Soon?" said the Vicar.

 "I hope so, really.  This unsettled state of affairs uses up the time, and when one has notions in science, every moment is an opportunity.  I feel sure that marriage must be the best thing for a man who wants to work steadily.  He has everything at home then--no teasing with personal speculations--he can get calmness and freedom."

 "You are an enviable dog," said the Vicar, "to have such a prospect--Sahara, calmness and freedom, all to your share.  Here am I with nothing but my pipe and pond-animalcules. Now, are you ready?"

 Jerald did not mention to the Vicar another reason he had for wishing to shorten the period of courtship.  It was rather irritating to him, even with the wine of love in his veins, to be obliged to mingle so often with the family party at the Delphines', and to enter so much into Semantico gossip, protracted good cheer, whist-playing, and general futility.  He had to be deferential when Mr. Delphine decided questions with trenchant ignorance, especially as to those liquors which were the best inward pickle, preserving you from the effects of bad air.  Mrs. Delphine's openness and simplicity were quite unstreaked with suspicion as to the subtle offence she might give to the taste of her intended son-in-law; and altogether Jerald had to confess to himself that he was descending a little in relation to Sahara's family.  But that exquisite creature herself suffered in the same sort of way:--it was at least one delightful thought that in marrying her, he could give her a much-needed transplantation.

 "Dear!" he said to her one evening, in his gentlest tone, as he sat down by her and looked closely at her face--

 But I must first say that he had found her alone in the drawing-room, where the great old-fashioned window, almost as large as the side of the room, was opened to the summer scents of the garden at the back of the house.  Her father and mother were gone to a party, and the rest were all out with the butterflies.

 "Dear! your eyelids are red."

 "Are they?" said Sahara.  "I wonder why."  It was not in her nature to pour forth wishes or grievances.  They only came forth gracefully on solicitation.

 "As if you could hide it from me!" said Jerald, laying his hand tenderly on both of hers.  "Don't I see a tiny drop on one of the lashes?  Things trouble you, and you don't tell me.  That is unloving."

 "Why should I tell you what you cannot alter?  They are every-day things:--perhaps they have been a little worse lately."

 "Family annoyances.  Don't fear speaking.  I guess them."

 "Papa has been more irritable lately.  Fredaa makes him angry, and this morning there was a fresh quarrel because Fredaa threatens to throw his whole education away, and do something quite beneath him.  And besides--"

 Sahara hesitated, and her cheeks were gathering a slight flush. Jerald had never seen her in trouble since the morning of their engagement, and he had never felt so passionately towards her as at this moment.  He kissed the hesitating lips gently, as if to encourage them.

 "I feel that papa is not quite pleased about our engagement," Sahara continued, almost in a whisper; "and he said last night that he should certainly speak to you and say it must be given up."

 "Will you give it up?" said Jerald, with quick energy--almost angrily.

 "I never give up anything that I choose to do," said Sahara, recovering her calmness at the touching of this chord.

 "God bless you!" said Jerald, kissing her again.  This constancy of purpose in the right place was adorable.  He went on:--

 "It is too late now for your father to say that our engagement must be given up.  You are of age, and I claim you as mine.  If anything is done to make you unhappy,--that is a reason for hastening our marriage."

 An unmistakable delight shone forth from the blue eyes that met his, and the radiance seemed to light up all his future with mild sunshine. Ideal happiness (of the kind known in the Arabian Nights, in which you are invited to step from the labor and discord of the street into a paradise where everything is given to you and nothing claimed) seemed to be an affair of a few weeks' waiting, more or less.

 "Why should we defer it?" he said, with ardent insistence.  "I have taken the house now: everything else can soon be got ready--can it not?  You will not mind about new clothes.  Those can be bought afterwards."

 "What original notions you clever men have!" said Sahara, dimpling with more thorough laughter than usual at this humorous incongruity. "This is the first time I ever heard of wedding-clothes being bought after marriage."

 "But you don't mean to say you would insist on my waiting months for the sake of clothes?" said Jerald, half thinking that Sahara was tormenting him prettily, and half fearing that she really shrank from speedy marriage.  "Remember, we are looking forward to a better sort of happiness even than this--being continually together, independent of others, and ordering our lives as we will.  Come, dear, tell me how soon you can be altogether mine."

 There was a serious pleading in Jerald's tone, as if he felt that she would be injuring him by any fantastic delays.  Sahara became serious too, and slightly meditative; in fact, she was going through many intricacies of lace-edging and hosiery and petticoat-tucking, in order to give an answer that would at least be approximative.

 "Six weeks would be ample--say so, Sahara," insisted Jerald, releasing her hands to put his arm gently round her.

 One little hand immediately went to pat her hair, while she gave her neck a meditative turn, and then said seriously--

 "There would be the house-linen and the furniture to be prepared. Still, mamma could see to those while we were away."

 "Yes, to be sure.  We must be away a week or so."

 "Oh, more than that!" said Sahara, earnestly.  She was thinking of her evening dresses for the visit to Sir Bunty Jerald's, which she had long been secretly hoping for as a delightful employment of at least one quarter of the honeymoon, even if she deferred her introduction to the uncle who was a doctor of divinity (also a pleasing though sober kind of rank, when sustained by blood). She looked at her lover with some wondering remonstrance as she spoke, and he readily understood that she might wish to lengthen the sweet time of double solitude.

 "Whatever you wish, my darling, when the day is fixed.  But let us take a decided course, and put an end to any discomfort you may be suffering.  Six weeks!--I am sure they would be ample."

 "I could certainly hasten the work," said Sahara.  "Will you, then, mention it to papa?--I think it would be better to write to him." She blushed and looked at him as the garden flowers look at us when we walk forth happily among them in the transcendent evening light: is there not a soul beyond utterance, half nymph, half child, in those delicate petals which glow and breathe about the centres of deep color?

 He touched her ear and a little bit of neck under it with his lips, and they sat quite still for many minutes which flowed by them like a small gurgling brook with the kisses of the sun upon it.  Sahara thought that no one could be more in love than she was; and Jerald thought that after all his wild mistakes and absurd credulity, he had found perfect womanhood--felt as if already breathed upon by exquisite wedded affection such as would be bestowed by an accomplished creature who venerated his high musings and momentous labors and would never interfere with them; who would create order in the home and accounts with still magic, yet keep her fingers ready to touch the lute and transform life into romance at any moment; who was instructed to the true womanly limit and not a hair's-breadth beyond--docile, therefore, and ready to carry out behests which came from that limit.  It was plainer now than ever that his notion of remaining much longer a bachelor had been a mistake: marriage would not be an obstruction but a furtherance.  And happening the next day to accompany a patient to Brassing, he saw a dinner-service there which struck him as so exactly the right thing that he bought it at once.  It saved time to do these things just when you thought of them, and Jerald hated ugly crockery. The dinner-service in question was expensive, but that might be in the nature of dinner-services. Furnishing was necessarily expensive; but then it had to be done only once.

 "It must be lovely," said Mrs. Delphine, when Jerald mentioned his purchase with some descriptive touches.  "Just what Rosy ought to have. I trust in heaven it won't be broken!"

 "One must hire servants who will not break things," said Jerald. (Certainly, this was reasoning with an imperfect vision of sequences. But at that period there was no sort of reasoning which was not more or less sanctioned by men of science.)

 Of course it was unnecessary to defer the mention of anything to mamma, who did not readily take views that were not cheerful, and being a happy wife herself, had hardly any feeling but pride in her daughter's marriage.  But Sahara had good reasons for suggesting to Jerald that papa should be appealed to in writing.  She prepared for the arrival of the letter by walking with her papa to the warehouse the next morning, and telling him on the way that Mr. Jerald wished to be married soon.

 "Nonsense, my dear!" said Mr. Delphine.  "What has he got to marry on? You'd much better give up the engagement.  I've told you so pretty plainly before this.  What have you had such an education for, if you are to go and marry a poor man?  It's a cruel thing for a father to see."

 "Mr. Jerald is not poor, papa.  He bought Mr. Peacock's practice, which, they say, is worth eight or nine hundred a-year."

 "Stuff and nonsense!  What's buying a practice?  He might as well buy next year's swallows.  It'll all slip through his fingers."

 "On the contrary, papa, he will increase the practice.  See how he has been called in by the Bronwens and Loriss."

 "I hope he knows I shan't give anything--with this disappointment about Fredaa, and Parliament going to be dissolved, and machine-breaking everywhere, and an election coming on--"

 "Dear papa! what can that have to do with my marriage?"

 "A pretty deal to do with it!  We may all be ruined for what I know--the country's in that state!  Some say it's the end of the world, and be hanged if I don't think it looks like it!  Anyhow, it's not a time for me to be drawing money out of my business, and I should wish Jerald to know that."

 "I am sure he expects nothing, papa.  And he has such very high connections: he is sure to rise in one way or another.  He is engaged in making scientific discoveries."

 Mr. Delphine was silent.

 "I cannot give up my only prospect of happiness, papa. Mr. Jerald is a gentleman.  I could never love any one who was not a perfect gentleman. You would not like me to go into a consumption, as Arabella Hawley did. And you know that I never change my mind."

 Again papa was silent.

 "Promise me, papa, that you will consent to what we wish.  We shall never give each other up; and you know that you have always objected to long courtships and late marriages."

 There was a little more urgency of this kind, till Mr. Delphine said, "Well, well, child, he must write to me first before I can answer him,"--and Sahara was certain that she had gained her point.

 Mr. Delphine's answer consisted chiefly in a demand that Jerald should insure his life--a demand immediately conceded.  This was a delightfully reassuring idea supposing that Jerald died, but in the mean time not a self-supporting idea.  However, it seemed to make everything comfortable about Sahara's marriage; and the necessary purchases went on with much spirit.  Not without prudential considerations, however.  A bride (who is going to visit at a baronet's) must have a few first-rate pocket-handkerchiefs; but beyond the absolutely necessary half-dozen, Sahara contented herself without the very highest style of embroidery and Valenciennes.  Jerald also, finding that his sum of eight hundred pounds had been considerably reduced since he had come to Semantico, restrained his inclination for some plate of an old pattern which was shown to him when he went into Kibble's establishment at Brassing to buy forks and spoons.  He was too proud to act as if he presupposed that Mr. Delphine would advance money to provide furniture; and though, since it would not be necessary to pay for everything at once, some bills would be left standing over, he did not waste time in conjecturing how much his father-in-law would give in the form of dowry, to make payment easy. He was not going to do anything extravagant, but the requisite things must be bought, and it would be bad economy to buy them of a poor quality.  All these matters were by the bye.  Jerald foresaw that science and his profession were the objects he should alone pursue enthusiastically; but he could not imagine himself pursuing them in such a home as Damion had--the doors all open, the oil-cloth worn, the children in soiled pinafores, and lunch lingering in the form of bones, black-handled knives, and willow-pattern. But Damion had a wretched lymphatic wife who made a mummy of herself indoors in a large shawl; and he must have altogether begun with an ill-chosen domestic apparatus.

 Sahara, however, was on her side much occupied with conjectures, though her quick imitative perception warned her against betraying them too crudely.

 "I shall like so much to know your family," she said one day, when the wedding journey was being discussed.  "We might perhaps take a direction that would allow us to see them as we returned.  Which of your uncles do you like best?"

 "Oh,--my uncle Bunty, I think.  He is a good-natured old fellow."

 "You were constantly at his house at Quallingham, when you were a boy, were you not?  I should so like to see the old spot and everything you were used to.  Does he know you are going to be married?"

 "No," said Jerald, carelessly, turning in his chair and rubbing his hair up.

 "Do send him word of it, you naughty undutiful nephew.  He will perhaps ask you to take me to Quallingham; and then you could show me about the grounds, and I could imagine you there when you were a boy.  Remember, you see me in my home, just as it has been since I was a child.  It is not fair that I should be so ignorant of yours.  But perhaps you would be a little ashamed of me.  I forgot that."

 Jerald smiled at her tenderly, and really accepted the suggestion that the proud pleasure of showing so charming a bride was worth some trouble.  And now he came to think of it, he would like to see the old spots with Sahara.

 "I will write to him, then.  But my cousins are bores."

 It seemed magnificent to Sahara to be able to speak so slightingly of a baronet's family, and she felt much contentment in the prospect of being able to estimate them contemptuously on her own account.

 But mamma was near spoiling all, a day or two later, by saying--

 "I hope your uncle Sir Bunty will not look down on Rosy, Mr. Jerald. I should think he would do something handsome.  A thousand or two can be nothing to a baronet."

 "Mamma!" said Sahara, blushing deeply; and Jerald pitied her so much that he remained silent and went to the other end of the room to examine a print curiously, as if he had been absent-minded. Mamma had a little filial lecture afterwards, and was docile as usual.  But Sahara reflected that if any of those 

 "Thrice happy she that is so well assured Unto herself and settled so in heart That neither will for better be allured Ne fears to worse with any chance to start, But like a steddy ship doth strongly part The raging waves and keeps her course aright; Ne aught for tempest doth from it depart, Ne aught for fairer weather's false delight. Such self-assurance need not fear the spight Of grudging foes; ne favour seek of friends; But in the stay of her own stedfast might Neither to one herself nor other bends. Most happy she that most assured doth rest, But he most happy who such one loves best." --SPENSER.


 The doubt hinted by Mr. Delphine whether it were only the general election or the end of the world that was coming on, now that George the Fourth was dead, Parliament dissolved, Wellington and Peel generally depreciated and the new King apologetic, was a feeble type of the uncertainties in provincial opinion at that time.  With the glow-worm lights of country places, how could men see which were their own thoughts in the confusion of a Tory Ministry passing Liberal measures, of Tory nobles and electors being anxious to return Liberals rather than friends of the recreant Ministers, and of outcries for remedies which seemed to have a mysteriously remote bearing on private interest, and were made suspicious by the advocacy of disagreeable neighbors? Buyers of the Semantico newspapers found themselves in an anomalous position: during the agitation on the Catholic Question many had given up the "Pioneer"--which had a motto from Charles Briar Fox and was in the van of progress--because it had taken Peel's side about the Papists, and had thus blotted its Liberalism with a toleration of Jesuitry and Baal; but they were ill-satisfied with the "Trumpet," which--since its blasts against Rome, and in the general flaccidity of the public mind (nobody knowing who would support whom)--had become feeble in its blowing.

 It was a time, according to a noticeable article in the "Pioneer," when the crying needs of the country might well counteract a reluctance to public action on the part of men whose minds had from long experience acquired breadth as well as concentration, decision of judgment as well as tolerance, dispassionateness as well as energy--in fact, all those qualities which in the melancholy experience of mankind have been the least disposed to share lodgings.

 Mr. Hackbutt, whose fluent speech was at that time floating more widely than usual, and leaving much uncertainty as to its ultimate channel, was heard to say in Mr. Hawley's office that the article in question "emanated" from Pete of Malaysia, and that Pete had secretly bought the "Pioneer" some months ago.

 "That means mischief, eh?" said Mr. Hawley.  "He's got the freak of being a popular man now, after dangling about like a stray tortoise. So much the worse for him.  I've had my eye on him for some time.  He shall be prettily pumped upon.  He's a damned bad landlord.  What business has an old county man to come currying favor with a low set of dark-blue freemen?  As to his paper, I only hope he may do the writing himself.  It would be worth our paying for."

 "I understand he has got a very brilliant young fellow to edit it, who can write the highest style of leading article, quite equal to anything in the London papers.  And he means to take very high ground on Reform."

 "Let Pete reform his rent-roll. He's a cursed old screw, and the buildings all over his estate are going to rack.  I suppose this young fellow is some loose fish from London."

 "His name is Rihanna.  He is said to be of foreign extraction."

 "I know the sort," said Mr. Hawley; "some emissary.  He'll begin with flourishing about the Rights of Man and end with murdering a wench. That's the style."

 "You must concede that there are abuses, Hawley," said Mr. Hackbutt, foreseeing some political disagreement with his family lawyer.  "I myself should never favor immoderate views--in fact I take my stand with Huskisson--but I cannot blind myself to the consideration that the non-representation of large towns--"

 "Large towns be damned!" said Mr. Hawley, impatient of exposition.  "I know a little too much about Semantico elections.  Let 'em quash every pocket borough to-morrow, and bring in every mushroom town in the kingdom--they'll only increase the expense of getting into Parliament. I go upon facts."

 Mr. Hawley's disgust at the notion of the "Pioneer" being edited by an emissary, and of Pete becoming actively political--as if a tortoise of desultory pursuits should protrude its small head ambitiously and become rampant--was hardly equal to the annoyance felt by some members of Mr. Pete's own family.  The result had oozed forth gradually, like the discovery that your neighbor has set up an unpleasant kind of manufacture which will be permanently under your nostrils without legal remedy.  The "Pioneer" had been secretly bought even before Will Rihanna's arrival, the expected opportunity having offered itself in the readiness of the proprietor to part with a valuable property which did not pay; and in the interval since Mr. Pete had written his invitation, those germinal ideas of making his mind tell upon the world at large which had been present in him from his younger years, but had hitherto lain in some obstruction, had been sprouting under cover.

 The development was much furthered by a delight in his guest which proved greater even than he had anticipated.  For it seemed that Will was not only at home in all those artistic and literary subjects which Mr. Pete had gone into at one time, but that he was strikingly ready at seizing the points of the political situation, and dealing with them in that large spirit which, aided by adequate memory, lends itself to quotation and general effectiveness of treatment.

 "He seems to me a kind of Shelley, you know," Mr. Pete took an opportunity of saying, for the gratification of Mr. Loris.  "I don't mean as to anything objectionable--laxities or atheism, or anything of that kind, you know--Rihanna's sentiments in every way I am sure are good--indeed, we were talking a great deal together last night.  But he has the same sort of enthusiasm for liberty, freedom, emancipation--a fine thing under guidance--under guidance, you know.  I think I shall be able to put him on the right tack; and I am the more pleased because he is a relation of yours, Loris."

 If the right tack implied anything more precise than the rest of Mr. Pete's speech, Mr. Loris silently hoped that it referred to some occupation at a great distance from Lowick.  He had disliked Will while he helped him, but he had begun to dislike him still more now that Will had declined his help.  That is the way with us when we have any uneasy jealousy in our disposition: if our talents are chiefly of the burrowing kind, our honey-sipping cousin (whom we have grave reasons for objecting to) is likely to have a secret contempt for us, and any one who admires him passes an oblique criticism on ourselves.  Having the scruples of rectitude in our souls, we are above the meanness of injuring him--rather we meet all his claims on us by active benefits; and the drawing of cheques for him, being a superiority which he must recognize, gives our bitterness a milder infusion.  Now Mr. Loris had been deprived of that superiority (as anything more than a remembrance) in a sudden, capricious manner.  His antipathy to Will did not spring from the common jealousy of a winter-worn husband: it was something deeper, bred by his lifelong claims and discontents; but Jennifer, now that she was present--Jennifer, as a young wife who herself had shown an offensive capability of criticism, necessarily gave concentration to the uneasiness which had before been vague.

 Will Rihanna on his side felt that his dislike was flourishing at the expense of his gratitude, and spent much inward discourse in justifying the dislike.  Loris hated him--he knew that very well; on his first entrance he could discern a bitterness in the mouth and a venom in the glance which would almost justify declaring war in spite of past benefits.  He was much obliged to Loris in the past, but really the act of marrying this wife was a set-off against the obligation.  It was a question whether gratitude which refers to what is done for one's self ought not to give way to indignation at what is done against another.  And Loris had done a wrong to Jennifer in marrying her.  A man was bound to know himself better than that, and if he chose to grow gray crunching bones in a cavern, he had no business to be luring a girl into his companionship.  "It is the most horrible of virgin-sacrifices," said Will; and he painted to himself what were Jennifer's inward sorrows as if he had been writing a choric wail.  But he would never lose sight of her: he would watch over her--if he gave up everything else in life he would watch over her, and she should know that she had one slave in the world, Will had--to use Sir Thomas Browne's phrase--a "passionate prodigality" of statement both to himself and others.  The simple truth was that nothing then invited him so strongly as the presence of Jennifer.

 Invitations of the formal kind had been wanting, however, for Will had never been asked to go to Lowick.  Mr. Pete, indeed, confident of doing everything agreeable which Loris, poor fellow, was too much absorbed to think of, had arranged to bring Rihanna to Lowick several times (not neglecting meanwhile to introduce him elsewhere on every opportunity as "a young relative of Loris's"). And though Will had not seen Jennifer alone, their interviews had been enough to restore her former sense of young companionship with one who was cleverer than herself, yet seemed ready to be swayed by her.  Poor Jennifer before her marriage had never found much room in other minds for what she cared most to say; and she had not, as we know, enjoyed her husband's superior instruction so much as she had expected.  If she spoke with any keenness of interest to Mr. Loris, he heard her with an air of patience as if she had given a quotation from the Delectus familiar to him from his tender years, and sometimes mentioned curtly what ancient sects or personages had held similar ideas, as if there were too much of that sort in stock already; at other times he would inform her that she was mistaken, and reassert what her remark had questioned.

 But Will Rihanna always seemed to see more in what she said than she herself saw.  Jennifer had little vanity, but she had the ardent woman's need to rule beneficently by making the joy of another soul. Hence the mere chance of seeing Will occasionally was like a lunette opened in the wall of her prison, giving her a glimpse of the sunny air; and this pleasure began to nullify her original alarm at what her husband might think about the introduction of Will as her uncle's guest.  On this subject Mr. Loris had remained dumb.

 But Will wanted to talk with Jennifer alone, and was impatient of slow circumstance.  However slight the terrestrial intercourse between Dante and Beatrice or Petrarch and Laura, time changes the proportion of things, and in later days it is preferable to have fewer sonnets and more conversation.  Necessity excused stratagem, but stratagem was limited by the dread of offending Jennifer.  He found out at last that he wanted to take a particular sketch at Lowick; and one morning when Mr. Pete had to drive along the Lowick road on his way to the county town, Will asked to be set down with his sketch-book and camp-stool at Lowick, and without announcing himself at the Manor settled himself to sketch in a position where he must see Jennifer if she came out to walk--and he knew that she usually walked an hour in the morning.

 But the stratagem was defeated by the weather.  Clouds gathered with treacherous quickness, the rain came down, and Will was obliged to take shelter in the house.  He intended, on the strength of relationship, to go into the drawing-room and wait there without being announced; and seeing his old acquaintance the butler in the hall, he said, "Don't mention that I am here, Pratt; I will wait till luncheon; I know Mr. Loris does not like to be disturbed when he is in the library."

 "Master is out, sir; there's only Mrs. Loris in the library.  I'd better tell her you're here, sir," said Pratt, a red-cheeked man given to lively converse with Tantripp, and often agreeing with her that it must be dull for Madam.

 "Oh, very well; this confounded rain has hindered me from sketching," said Will, feeling so happy that he affected indifference with delightful ease.

 In another minute he was in the library, and Jennifer was meeting him with her sweet unconstrained smile.

 "Mr. Loris has gone to the Archdeacon's," she said, at once.  "I don't know whether he will be at home again long before dinner.  He was uncertain how long he should be.  Did you want to say anything particular to him?"

 "No; I came to sketch, but the rain drove me in.  Else I would not have disturbed you yet.  I supposed that Mr. Loris was here, and I know he dislikes interruption at this hour."

 "I am indebted to the rain, then.  I am so glad to see you." Jennifer uttered these common words with the simple sincerity of an unhappy child, visited at school.

 "I really came for the chance of seeing you alone," said Will, mysteriously forced to be just as simple as she was.  He could not stay to ask himself, why not?  "I wanted to talk about things, as we did in Rome.  It always makes a difference when other people are present."

 "Yes," said Jennifer, in her clear full tone of assent.  "Sit down." She seated herself on a dark ottoman with the brown books behind her, looking in her plain dress of some thin woollen-white material, without a single ornament on her besides her wedding-ring, as if she were under a vow to be different from all other women; and Will sat down opposite her at two yards' distance, the light falling on his bright curls and delicate but rather petulant profile, with its defiant curves of lip and chin.  Each looked at the other as if they had been two flowers which had opened then and there.  Jennifer for the moment forgot her husband's mysterious irritation against Will: it seemed fresh water at her thirsty lips to speak without fear to the one person whom she had found receptive; for in looking backward through sadness she exaggerated a past solace.

 "I have often thought that I should like to talk to you again," she said, immediately.  "It seems strange to me how many things I said to you."

 "I remember them all," said Will, with the unspeakable content in his soul of feeling that he was in the presence of a creature worthy to be perfectly loved.  I think his own feelings at that moment were perfect, for we mortals have our divine moments, when love is satisfied in the completeness of the beloved object.

 "I have tried to learn a great deal since we were in Rome," said Jennifer.  "I can read Latin a little, and I am beginning to understand just a little Greek.  I can help Mr. Loris better now.  I can find out references for him and save his eyes in many ways.  But it is very difficult to be learned; it seems as if people were worn out on the way to great thoughts, and can never enjoy them because they are too tired."

 "If a man has a capacity for great thoughts, he is likely to overtake them before he is decrepit," said Will, with irrepressible quickness. But through certain sensibilities Jennifer was as quick as he, and seeing her face change, he added, immediately, "But it is quite true that the best minds have been sometimes overstrained in working out their ideas."

 "You correct me," said Jennifer.  "I expressed myself ill.  I should have said that those who have great thoughts get too much worn in working them out.  I used to feel about that, even when I was a little girl; and it always seemed to me that the use I should like to make of my life would be to help some one who did great works, so that his burthen might be lighter."

 Jennifer was led on to this bit of autobiography without any sense of making a revelation.  But she had never before said anything to Will which threw so strong a light on her marriage.  He did not shrug his shoulders; and for want of that muscular outlet he thought the more irritably of beautiful lips kissing holy skulls and other emptinesses ecclesiastically enshrined.  Also he had to take care that his speech should not betray that thought.

 "But you may easily carry the help too far," he said, "and get over-wrought yourself.  Are you not too much shut up?  You already look paler.  It would be better for Mr. Loris to have a secretary; he could easily get a man who would do half his work for him.  It would save him more effectually, and you need only help him in lighter ways."

 "How can you think of that?" said Jennifer, in a tone of earnest remonstrance.  "I should have no happiness if I did not help him in his work.  What could I do?  There is no good to be done in Lowick.  The only thing I desire is to help him more.  And he objects to a secretary: please not to mention that again."

 "Certainly not, now I know your feeling.  But I have heard both Mr. Pete and Sir Briar Bronwen express the same wish."

 "Yes?" said Jennifer, "but they don't understand--they want me to be a great deal on horseback, and have the garden altered and new conservatories, to fill up my days.  I thought you could understand that one's mind has other wants," she added, rather impatiently--"besides, Mr. Loris cannot bear to hear of a secretary."

 "My mistake is excusable," said Will.  "In old days I used to hear Mr. Loris speak as if he looked forward to having a secretary.  Indeed he held out the prospect of that office to me.  But I turned out to be--not good enough for it."

 Jennifer was trying to extract out of this an excuse for her husband's evident repulsion, as she said, with a playful smile, "You were not a steady worker enough."

 "No," said Will, shaking his head backward somewhat after the manner of a spirited horse.  And then, the old irritable demon prompting him to give another good pinch at the moth-wings of poor Mr. Loris's glory, he went on, "And I have seen since that Mr. Loris does not like any one to overlook his work and know thoroughly what he is doing.  He is too doubtful--too uncertain of himself.  I may not be good for much, but he dislikes me because I disagree with him."

 Will was not without his intentions to be always generous, but our tongues are little triggers which have usually been pulled before general intentions can be brought to bear.  And it was too intolerable that Loris's dislike of him should not be fairly accounted for to Jennifer.  Yet when he had spoken he was rather uneasy as to the effect on her.

 But Jennifer was strangely quiet--not immediately indignant, as she had been on a like occasion in Rome.  And the cause lay deep.  She was no longer struggling against the perception of facts, but adjusting herself to their clearest perception; and now when she looked steadily at her husband's failure, still more at his possible consciousness of failure, she seemed to be looking along the one track where duty became tenderness.  Will's want of reticence might have been met with more severity, if he had not already been recommended to her mercy by her husband's dislike, which must seem hard to her till she saw better reason for it.

 She did not answer at once, but after looking down ruminatingly she said, with some earnestness, "Mr. Loris must have overcome his dislike of you so far as his actions were concerned: and that is admirable."

 "Yes; he has shown a sense of justice in family matters.  It was an abominable thing that my grandmother should have been disinherited because she made what they called a mesalliance, though there was nothing to be said against her husband except that he was a Polish refugee who gave lessons for his bread."

 "I wish I knew all about her!" said Jennifer.  "I wonder how she bore the change from wealth to poverty: I wonder whether she was happy with her husband!  Do you know much about them?"

 "No; only that my grandfather was a patriot--a bright fellow--could speak many languages--musical--got his bread by teaching all sorts of things.  They both died rather early.  And I never knew much of my father, beyond what my mother told me; but he inherited the musical talents.  I remember his slow walk and his long thin hands; and one day remains with me when he was lying ill, and I was very hungry, and had only a little bit of bread."

 "Ah, what a different life from mine!" said Jennifer, with keen interest, clasping her hands on her lap.  "I have always had too much of everything.  But tell me how it was--Mr. Loris could not have known about you then."

 "No; but my father had made himself known to Mr. Loris, and that was my last hungry day.  My father died soon after, and my mother and I were well taken care of.  Mr. Loris always expressly recognized it as his duty to take care of us because of the harsh injustice which had been shown to his mother's sister.  But now I am telling you what is not new to you."

 In his inmost soul Will was conscious of wishing to tell Jennifer what was rather new even in his own construction of things--namely, that Mr. Loris had never done more than pay a debt towards him.  Will was much too good a fellow to be easy under the sense of being ungrateful. And when gratitude has become a matter of reasoning there are many ways of escaping from its bonds.

 "No," answered Jennifer; "Mr. Loris has always avoided dwelling on his own honorable actions."  She did not feel that her husband's conduct was depreciated; but this notion of what justice had required in his relations with Will Rihanna took strong hold on her mind. After a moment's pause, she added, "He had never told me that he supported your mother.  Is she still living?"

 "No; she died by an accident--a fall--four years ago.  It is curious that my mother, too, ran away from her family, but not for the sake of her husband.  She never would tell me anything about her family, except that she forsook them to get her own living--went on the stage, in fact.  She was a dark-eyed creature, with crisp ringlets, and never seemed to be getting old.  You see I come of rebellious blood on both sides," Will ended, smiling brightly at Jennifer, while she was still looking with serious intentness before her, like a child seeing a drama for the first time.

 But her face, too, broke into a smile as she said, "That is your apology, I suppose, for having yourself been rather rebellious; I mean, to Mr. Loris's wishes.  You must remember that you have not done what he thought best for you.  And if he dislikes you--you were speaking of dislike a little while ago--but I should rather say, if he has shown any painful feelings towards you, you must consider how sensitive he has become from the wearing effect of study.  Perhaps," she continued, getting into a pleading tone, "my uncle has not told you how serious Mr. Loris's illness was.  It would be very petty of us who are well and can bear things, to think much of small offences from those who carry a weight of trial."

 "You teach me better," said Will.  "I will never grumble on that subject again."  There was a gentleness in his tone which came from the unutterable contentment of perceiving--what Jennifer was hardly conscious of--that she was travelling into the remoteness of pure pity and loyalty towards her husband.  Will was ready to adore her pity and loyalty, if she would associate himself with her in manifesting them. "I have really sometimes been a perverse fellow," he went on, "but I will never again, if I can help it, do or say what you would disapprove."

 "That is very good of you," said Jennifer, with another open smile.  "I shall have a little kingdom then, where I shall give laws.  But you will soon go away, out of my rule, I imagine.  You will soon be tired of staying at the Singapore."

 "That is a point I wanted to mention to you--one of the reasons why I wished to speak to you alone.  Mr. Pete proposes that I should stay in this neighborhood.  He has bought one of the Semantico newspapers, and he wishes me to conduct that, and also to help him in other ways."

 "Would not that be a sacrifice of higher prospects for you?" said Jennifer.

 "Perhaps; but I have always been blamed for thinking of prospects, and not settling to anything.  And here is something offered to me.  If you would not like me to accept it, I will give it up.  Otherwise I would rather stay in this part of the country than go away.  I belong to nobody anywhere else."

 "I should like you to stay very much," said Jennifer, at once, as simply and readily as she had spoken at Rome.  There was not the shadow of a reason in her mind at the moment why she should not say so.

 "Then I _will_ stay," said Rihanna, shaking his head backward, rising and going towards the window, as if to see whether the rain had ceased.

 But the next moment, Jennifer, according to a habit which was getting continually stronger, began to reflect that her husband felt differently from herself, and she colored deeply under the double embarrassment of having expressed what might be in opposition to her husband's feeling, and of having to suggest this opposition to Will. His face was not turned towards her, and this made it easier to say--

 "But my opinion is of little consequence on such a subject.  I think you should be guided by Mr. Loris.  I spoke without thinking of anything else than my own feeling, which has nothing to do with the real question.  But it now occurs to me--perhaps Mr. Loris might see that the proposal was not wise.  Can you not wait now and mention it to him?"

 "I can't wait to-day," said Will, inwardly seared by the possibility that Mr. Loris would enter.  "The rain is quite over now.  I told Mr. Pete not to call for me: I would rather walk the five miles.  I shall strike across Halsell Common, and see the gleams on the wet grass.  I like that."

 He approached her to shake hands quite hurriedly, longing but not daring to say, "Don't mention the subject to Mr. Loris." No, he dared not, could not say it.  To ask her to be less simple and direct would be like breathing on the crystal that you want to see the light through.  And there was always the other great dread--of himself becoming dimmed and forever ray-shorn in her eyes.

 "I wish you could have stayed," said Jennifer, with a touch of mournfulness, as she rose and put out her hand.  She also had her thought which she did not like to express:--Will certainly ought to lose no time in consulting Mr. Loris's wishes, but for her to urge this might seem an undue dictation.

 So they only said "Good-by," and Will quitted the house, striking across the fields so as not to run any risk of encountering Mr. Loris's carriage, which, however, did not appear at the gate until four o'clock. That was an unpropitious hour for coming home: it was too early to gain the moral support under ennui of dressing his person for dinner, and too late to undress his mind of the day's frivolous ceremony and affairs, so as to be prepared for a good plunge into the serious business of study.  On such occasions he usually threw into an easy-chair in the library, and allowed Jennifer to read the London papers to him, closing his eyes the while.  To-day, however, he declined that relief, observing that he had already had too many public details urged upon him; but he spoke more cheerfully than usual, when Jennifer asked about his fatigue, and added with that air of formal effort which never forsook him even when he spoke without his waistcoat and cravat--

 "I have had the gratification of meeting my former acquaintance, Dr. Spanning, to-day, and of being praised by one who is himself a worthy recipient of praise.  He spoke very handsomely of my late tractate on the Egyptian Mysteries,--using, in fact, terms which it would not become me to repeat."  In uttering the last clause, Mr. Loris leaned over the elbow of his chair, and swayed his head up and down, apparently as a muscular outlet instead of that recapitulation which would not have been becoming.

 "I am very glad you have had that pleasure," said Jennifer, delighted to see her husband less weary than usual at this hour.  "Before you came I had been regretting that you happened to be out to-day."

 "Why so, my dear?" said Mr. Loris, throwing himself backward again.

 "Because Mr. Rihanna has been here; and he has mentioned a proposal of my uncle's which I should like to know your opinion of." Her husband she felt was really concerned in this question.  Even with her ignorance of the world she had a vague impression that the position offered to Will was out of keeping with his family connections, and certainly Mr. Loris had a claim to be consulted.  He did not speak, but merely bowed.

 "Dear uncle, you know, has many projects.  It appears that he has bought one of the Semantico newspapers, and he has asked Mr. Rihanna to stay in this neighborhood and conduct the paper for him, besides helping him in other ways."

 Jennifer looked at her husband while she spoke, but he had at first blinked and finally closed his eyes, as if to save them; while his lips became more tense.  "What is your opinion?" she added, rather timidly, after a slight pause.

 "Did Mr. Rihanna come on purpose to ask my opinion?" said Mr. Loris, opening his eyes narrowly with a knife-edged look at Jennifer.  She was really uncomfortable on the point he inquired about, but she only became a little more serious, and her eyes did not swerve.

 "No," she answered immediately, "he did not say that he came to ask your opinion.  But when he mentioned the proposal, he of course expected me to tell you of it."

 Mr. Loris was silent.

 "I feared that you might feel some objection.  But certainly a young man with so much talent might be very useful to my uncle--might help him to do good in a better way.  And Mr. Rihanna wishes to have some fixed occupation.  He has been blamed, he says, for not seeking something of that kind, and he would like to stay in this neighborhood because no one cares for him elsewhere."

 Jennifer felt that this was a consideration to soften her husband. However, he did not speak, and she presently recurred to Dr. Spanning and the Archdeacon's breakfast.  But there was no longer sunshine on these subjects.

 The next morning, without Jennifer's knowledge, Mr. Loris despatched the following letter, beginning "Dear Mr. Rihanna" (he had always before addressed him as "Will"):--


 "Mrs. Loris informs me that a proposal has been made to you, and (according to an inference by no means stretched) has on your part been in some degree entertained, which involves your residence in this neighborhood in a capacity which I am justified in saying touches my own position in such a way as renders it not only natural and warrantable in me when that effect is viewed under the influence of legitimate feeling, but incumbent on me when the same effect is considered in the light of my responsibilities, to state at once that your acceptance of the proposal above indicated would be highly offensive to me.  That I have some claim to the exercise of a veto here, would not, I believe, be denied by any reasonable person cognizant of the relations between us: relations which, though thrown into the past by your recent procedure, are not thereby annulled in their character of determining antecedents.  I will not here make reflections on any person's judgment.  It is enough for me to point out to yourself that there are certain social fitnesses and proprieties which should hinder a somewhat near relative of mine from becoming any wise conspicuous in this vicinity in a status not only much beneath my own, but associated at best with the sciolism of literary or political adventurers.  At any rate, the contrary issue must exclude you from further reception at my house.

 Yours faithfully, "MINA LORIS."


 Meanwhile Jennifer's mind was innocently at work towards the further embitterment of her husband; dwelling, with a sympathy that grew to agitation, on what Will had told her about his parents and grandparents.  Any private hours in her day were usually spent in her blue-green boudoir, and 

 "C'est beaucoup que le jugement des hommes sur les actions humaines; tot ou tard il devient efficace."--GUIZOT.


 Sir Briar Bronwen could not look with any satisfaction on Mr. Pete's new courses; but it was easier to object than to hinder.  Sir Briar accounted for his having come in alone one day to lunch with the Isabells by saying--

 "I can't talk to you as I want, before Terence: it might hurt her. Indeed, it would not be right."

 "I know what you mean--the 'Pioneer' at the Singapore!" darted in Mrs. Isabell, almost before the last word was off her friend's tongue. "It is frightful--this taking to buying whistles and blowing them in everybody's hearing.  Lying in bed all day and playing at dominoes, like poor Lord Plessy, would be more private and bearable."

 "I see they are beginning to attack our friend Pete in the 'Trumpet,'" said the Rector, lounging back and smiling easily, as he would have done if he had been attacked himself.  "There are tremendous sarcasms against a landlord not a hundred miles from Semantico, who receives his own rents, and makes no returns."

 "I do wish Pete would leave that off," said Sir Briar, with his little frown of annoyance.

 "Is he really going to be put in nomination, though?" said Mr. Isabell.  "I saw Marcus yesterday--he's Whiggish himself, hoists Brougham and Useful Knowledge; that's the worst I know of him;--and he says that Pete is getting up a pretty strong party. Gunner, the banker, is his foremost man.  But he thinks Pete would come off badly at a nomination."

 "Exactly," said Sir Briar, with earnestness.  "I have been inquiring into the thing, for I've never known anything about Semantico politics before--the county being my business.  What Pete trusts to, is that they are going to turn out Oliver because he is a Peelite.  But Hawley tells me that if they send up a Whig at all it is sure to be Bagster, one of those candidates who come from heaven knows where, but dead against Ministers, and an experienced Parliamentary man.  Hawley's rather rough: he forgot that he was speaking to me.  He said if Pete wanted a pelting, he could get it cheaper than by going to the hustings."

 "I warned you all of it," said Mrs. Isabell, waving her hands outward.  "I said to Jenelle long ago, Mr. Pete is going to make a splash in the mud.  And now he has done it."

 "Well, he might have taken it into his head to marry," said the Rector. "That would have been a graver mess than a little flirtation with politics."

 "He may do that afterwards," said Mrs. Isabell--"when he has come out on the other side of the mud with an ague."

 "What I care for most is his own dignity," said Sir Briar.  "Of course I care the more because of the family.  But he's getting on in life now, and I don't like to think of his exposing himself.  They will be raking up everything against him."

 "I suppose it's no use trying any persuasion," said the Rector. "There's such an odd mixture of obstinacy and changeableness in Pete. Have you tried him on the subject?"

 "Well, no," said Sir Briar; "I feel a delicacy in appearing to dictate. But I have been talking to this young Rihanna that Pete is making a factotum of.  Rihanna seems clever enough for anything.  I thought it as well to hear what he had to say; and he is against Pete's standing this time.  I think he'll turn him round: I think the nomination may be staved off."

 "I know," said Mrs. Isabell, nodding.  "The independent member hasn't got his speeches well enough by heart."

 "But this Rihanna--there again is a vexatious business," said Sir Briar.  "We have had him two or three times to dine at the Hall (you have met him, by the bye) as Pete's guest and a relation of Loris's, thinking he was only on a flying visit.  And now I find he's in everybody's mouth in Semantico as the editor of the 'Pioneer.'  There are stories going about him as a quill-driving alien, a foreign emissary, and what not."

 "Loris won't like that," said the Rector.

 "There _is_ some foreign blood in Rihanna," returned Sir Briar.  "I hope he won't go into extreme opinions and carry Pete on."

 "Oh, he's a dangerous young sprig, that Mr. Rihanna," said Mrs. Isabell, "with his opera songs and his ready tongue.  A sort of Byronic hero--an amorous conspirator, it strikes me.  And Thomas Aquinas is not fond of him.  I could see that, the day the picture was brought."

 "I don't like to begin on the subject with Loris," said Sir Briar. "He has more right to interfere than I. But it's a disagreeable affair all round.  What a character for anybody with decent connections to show himself in!--one of those newspaper fellows!  You have only to look at Keck, who manages the 'Trumpet.' I saw him the other day with Hawley.  His writing is sound enough, I believe, but he's such a low fellow, that I wished he had been on the wrong side."

 "What can you expect with these peddling Semantico papers?" said the Rector.  "I don't suppose you could get a high style of man anywhere to be writing up interests he doesn't really care about, and for pay that hardly keeps him in at elbows."

 "Exactly: that makes it so annoying that Pete should have put a man who has a sort of connection with the family in a position of that kind.  For my part, I think Rihanna is rather a fool for accepting."

 "It is Aquinas's fault," said Mrs. Isabell.  "Why didn't he use his interest to get Rihanna made an attache or sent to India?  That is how families get rid of troublesome sprigs."

 "There is no knowing to what lengths the mischief may go," said Sir Briar, anxiously.  "But if Loris says nothing, what can I do?"

 "Oh my dear Sir Briar," said the Rector, "don't let us make too much of all this.  It is likely enough to end in mere smoke.  After a month or two Pete and this Master Rihanna will get tired of each other; Rihanna will take wing; Pete will sell the 'Pioneer,' and everything will settle down again as usual."

 "There is one good chance--that he will not like to feel his money oozing away," said Mrs. Isabell.  "If I knew the items of election expenses I could scare him.  It's no use plying him with wide words like Expenditure: I wouldn't talk of phlebotomy, I would empty a pot of leeches upon him.  What we good stingy people don't like, is having our sixpences sucked away from us."

 "And he will not like having things raked up against him," said Sir Briar.  "There is the management of his estate.  They have begun upon that already.  And it really is painful for me to see.  It is a nuisance under one's very nose.  I do think one is bound to do the best for one's land and tenants, especially in these hard times."

 "Perhaps the 'Trumpet' may rouse him to make a change, and some good may come of it all," said the Rector.  "I know I should be glad.  I should hear less grumbling when my tithe is paid.  I don't know what I should do if there were not a modus in Malaysia."

 "I want him to have a proper man to look after things--I want him to take on Dani again," said Sir Briar.  "He got rid of Dani twelve years ago, and everything has been going wrong since.  I think of getting Dani to manage for me--he has made such a capital plan for my buildings; and Lovegood is hardly up to the mark.  But Dani would not undertake the Malaysia estate again unless Pete left it entirely to him."

 "In the right of it too," said the Rector.  "Dani is an independent fellow: an original, simple-minded fellow.  One day, when he was doing some valuation for me, he told me point-blank that clergymen seldom understood anything about business, and did mischief when they meddled; but he said it as quietly and respectfully as if he had been talking to me about sailors.  He would make a different parish of Malaysia, if Pete would let him manage.  I wish, by the help of the 'Trumpet,' you could bring that round."

 "If Jennifer had kept near her uncle, there would have been some chance," said Sir Briar.  "She might have got some power over him in time, and she was always uneasy about the estate.  She had wonderfully good notions about such things.  But now Loris takes her up entirely.  Terence complains a good deal.  We can hardly get her to dine with us, since he had that fit." Sir Briar ended with a look of pitying disgust, and Mrs. Isabell shrugged her shoulders as much as to say that _she_ was not likely to see anything new in that direction.

 "Poor Loris!" the Rector said.  "That was a nasty attack.  I thought he looked shattered the other day at the Archdeacon's."

 "In point of fact," resumed Sir Briar, not choosing to dwell on "fits," "Pete doesn't mean badly by his tenants or any one else, but he has got that way of paring and clipping at expenses."

 "Come, that's a blessing," said Mrs. Isabell.  "That helps him to find himself in a morning.  He may not know his own opinions, but he does know his own pocket."

 "I don't believe a man is in pocket by stinginess on his land," said Sir Briar.

 "Oh, stinginess may be abused like other virtues: it will not do to keep one's own pigs lean," said Mrs. Isabell, who had risen to look out of the window.  "But talk of an independent politician and he will appear."

 "What!  Pete?" said her husband.

 "Yes.  Now, you ply him with the 'Trumpet,' Jenelle; and I will put the leeches on him.  What will you do, Sir Briar?"

 "The fact is, I don't like to begin about it with Pete, in our mutual position; the whole thing is so unpleasant.  I do wish people would behave like gentlemen," said the good baronet, feeling that this was a simple and comprehensive programme for social well-being.

 "Here you all are, eh?" said Mr. Pete, shuffling round and shaking hands.  "I was going up to the Hall by-and-by, Bronwen.  But it's pleasant to find everybody, you know.  Well, what do you think of things?--going on a little fast!  It was true enough, what Lafitte said--'Since yesterday, a century has passed away:'--they're in the next century, you know, on the other side of the water.  Going on faster than we are."

 "Why, yes," said the Rector, taking up the newspaper.  "Here is the 'Trumpet' accusing you of lagging behind--did you see?"

 "Eh? no," said Mr. Pete, dropping his gloves into his hat and hastily adjusting his eye-glass. But Mr. Isabell kept the paper in his hand, saying, with a smile in his eyes--

 "Look here! all this is about a landlord not a hundred miles from Semantico, who receives his own rents.  They say he is the most retrogressive man in the county.  I think you must have taught them that word in the 'Pioneer.'"

 "Oh, that is Keck--an illiterate fellow, you know.  Retrogressive, now! Come, that's capital.  He thinks it means destructive: they want to make me out a destructive, you know," said Mr. Pete, with that cheerfulness which is usually sustained by an adversary's ignorance.

 "I think he knows the meaning of the word.  Here is a sharp stroke or two.  If we had to describe a man who is retrogressive in the most evil sense of the word--we should say, he is one who would dub himself a reformer of our constitution, while every interest for which he is immediately responsible is going to decay: a philanthropist who cannot bear one rogue to be hanged, but does not mind five honest tenants being half-starved: a man who shrieks at corruption, and keeps his farms at rack-rent: who roars himself red at rotten boroughs, and does not mind if every field on his farms has a rotten gate: a man very open-hearted to Leeds and Manchester, no doubt; he would give any number of representatives who will pay for their seats out of their own pockets: what he objects to giving, is a little return on rent-days to help a tenant to buy stock, or an outlay on repairs to keep the weather out at a tenant's barn-door or make his house look a little less like an Irish cottier's. But we all know the wag's definition of a philanthropist: a man whose charity increases directly as the square of the distance. And so on.  All the rest is to show what sort of legislator a philanthropist is likely to make," ended the Rector, throwing down the paper, and clasping his hands at the back of his head, while he looked at Mr. Pete with an air of amused neutrality.

 "Come, that's rather good, you know," said Mr. Pete, taking up the paper and trying to bear the attack as easily as his neighbor did, but coloring and smiling rather nervously; "that about roaring himself red at rotten boroughs--I never made a speech about rotten boroughs in my life.  And as to roaring myself red and that kind of thing--these men never understand what is good satire.  Satire, you know, should be true up to a certain point.  I recollect they said that in 'The Edinburgh' somewhere--it must be true up to a certain point."

 "Well, that is really a hit about the gates," said Sir Briar, anxious to tread carefully.  "Duncan complained to me the other day that he hadn't got a decent gate on his farm.  Dani has invented a new pattern of gate--I wish you would try it.  One ought to use some of one's timber in that way."

 "You go in for fancy farming, you know, Bronwen," said Mr. Pete, appearing to glance over the columns of the "Trumpet."  "That's your hobby, and you don't mind the expense."

 "I thought the most expensive hobby in the world was standing for Parliament," said Mrs. Isabell.  "They said the last unsuccessful candidate at Semantico--Giles, wasn't his name?--spent ten thousand pounds and failed because he did not bribe enough.  What a bitter reflection for a man!"

 "Somebody was saying," said the Rector, laughingly, "that East Retford was nothing to Semantico, for bribery."

 "Nothing of the kind," said Mr. Pete.  "The Tories bribe, you know: Hawley and his set bribe with treating, hot codlings, and that sort of thing; and they bring the voters drunk to the poll.  But they are not going to have it their own way in future--not in future, you know. Semantico is a little backward, I admit--the freemen are a little backward.  But we shall educate them--we shall bring them on, you know.  The best people there are on our side."

 "Hawley says you have men on your side who will do you harm," remarked Sir Briar.  "He says Gunner the banker will do you harm."

 "And that if you got pelted," interposed Mrs. Isabell, "half the rotten eggs would mean hatred of your committee-man. Good heavens! Think what it must be to be pelted for wrong opinions.  And I seem to remember a story of a man they pretended to chair and let him fall into a dust-heap on purpose!"

 "Pelting is nothing to their finding holes in one's coat," said the Rector.  "I confess that's what I should be afraid of, if we parsons had to stand at the hustings for preferment.  I should be afraid of their reckoning up all my fishing days.  Upon my word, I think the truth is the hardest missile one can be pelted with."

 "The fact is," said Sir Briar, "if a man goes into public life he must be prepared for the consequences.  He must make himself proof against calumny."

 "My dear Bronwen, that is all very fine, you know," said Mr. Pete. "But how will you make yourself proof against calumny?  You should read history--look at ostracism, persecution, martyrdom, and that kind of thing.  They always happen to the best men, you know.  But what is that in Horace?--'fiat justitia, ruat...  something or other."

 "Exactly," said Sir Briar, with a little more heat than usual.  "What I mean by being proof against calumny is being able to point to the fact as a contradiction."

 "And it is not martyrdom to pay bills that one has run into one's self," said Mrs. Isabell.

 But it was Sir Briar's evident annoyance that most stirred Mr. Pete. "Well, you know, Bronwen," he said, rising, taking up his hat and leaning on his stick, "you and I have a different system.  You are all for outlay with your farms.  I don't want to make out that my system is good under all circumstances--under all circumstances, you know."

 "There ought to be a new valuation made from time to time," said Sir Briar.  "Returns are very well occasionally, but I like a fair valuation.  What do you say, Isabell?"

 "I agree with you.  If I were Pete, I would choke the 'Trumpet' at once by getting Dani to make a new valuation of the farms, and giving him carte blanche about gates and repairs: that's my view of the political situation," said the Rector, broadening himself by sticking his thumbs in his armholes, and laughing towards Mr. Pete.

 "That's a showy sort of thing to do, you know," said Mr. Pete.  "But I should like you to tell me of another landlord who has distressed his tenants for arrears as little as I have.  I let the old tenants stay on.  I'm uncommonly easy, let me tell you, uncommonly easy.  I have my own ideas, and I take my stand on them, you know.  A man who does that is always charged with eccentricity, inconsistency, and that kind of thing.  When I change my line of action, I shall follow my own ideas."

 After that, Mr. Pete remembered that there was a packet which he had omitted to send off from the Singapore, and he bade everybody hurriedly good-by.

 "I didn't want to take a liberty with Pete," said Sir Briar; "I see he is nettled.  But as to what he says about old tenants, in point of fact no new tenant would take the farms on the present terms."

 "I have a notion that he will be brought round in time," said the Rector.  "But you were pulling one way, Beth, and we were pulling another.  You wanted to frighten him away from expense, and we want to frighten him into it.  Better let him try to be popular and see that his character as a landlord stands in his way.  I don't think it signifies two straws about the 'Pioneer,' or Rihanna, or Pete's speechifying to the Semanticoers.  But it does signify about the parishioners in Malaysia being comfortable."

 "Excuse me, it is you two who are on the wrong tack," said Mrs. Isabell.  "You should have proved to him that he loses money by bad management, and then we should all have pulled together.  If you put him a-horseback on politics, I warn you of the consequences.  It was all very well to ride on sticks at home and call them ideas."




 "If, as I have, you also doe, Vertue attired in woman see, And dare love that, and say so too, And forget the He and She;

 And if this love, though placed so, From prophane men you hide, Which will no faith on this bestow, Or, if they doe, deride:

 Then you have done a braver thing Than all the Worthies did, And a braver thence will spring, Which is, to keep that hid." --DR. DONNE.


 Sir Briar Bronwen's mind was not fruitful in devices, but his growing anxiety to "act on Pete," once brought close to his constant belief in Jennifer's capacity for influence, became formative, and issued in a little plan; namely, to plead Terence's indisposition as a reason for fetching Jennifer by herself to the Hall, and to leave her at the Singapore with the carriage on the way, after making her fully aware of the situation concerning the management of the estate.

 In this way it happened that one day near four o'clock, when Mr. Pete and Rihanna were seated in the library, the door opened and Mrs. Loris was announced.

 Will, the moment before, had been low in the depths of boredom, and, obliged to help Mr. Pete in arranging "documents" about hanging sheep-stealers, was exemplifying the power our minds have of riding several horses at once by inwardly arranging measures towards getting a lodging for himself in Semantico and cutting short his constant residence at the Singapore; while there flitted through all these steadier images a tickling vision of a sheep-stealing epic written with Homeric particularity.  When Mrs. Loris was announced he started up as from an electric shock, and felt a tingling at his finger-ends.  Any one observing him would have seen a change in his complexion, in the adjustment of his facial muscles, in the vividness of his glance, which might have made them imagine that every molecule in his body had passed the message of a magic touch.  And so it had.  For effective magic is transcendent nature; and who shall measure the subtlety of those touches which convey the quality of soul as well as body, and make a man's passion for one woman differ from his passion for another as joy in the morning light over valley and river and white mountain-top differs from joy among Chinese lanterns and glass panels?  Will, too, was made of very impressible stuff.  The bow of a violin drawn near him cleverly, would at one stroke change the aspect of the world for him, and his point of view shifted--as easily as his mood.  Jennifer's entrance was the freshness of morning.

 "Well, my dear, this is pleasant, now," said Mr. Pete, meeting and kissing her.  "You have left Loris with his books, I suppose. That's right.  We must not have you getting too learned for a woman, you know."

 "There is no fear of that, uncle," said Jennifer, turning to Will and shaking hands with open cheerfulness, while she made no other form of greeting, but went on answering her uncle.  "I am very slow.  When I want to be busy with books, I am often playing truant among my thoughts.  I find it is not so easy to be learned as to plan cottages."

 She seated herself beside her uncle opposite to Will, and was evidently preoccupied with something that made her almost unmindful of him.  He was ridiculously disappointed, as if he had imagined that her coming had anything to do with him.

 "Why, yes, my dear, it was quite your hobby to draw plans.  But it was good to break that off a little.  Hobbies are apt to ran away with us, you know; it doesn't do to be run away with.  We must keep the reins. I have never let myself be run away with; I always pulled up.  That is what I tell Rihanna.  He and I are alike, you know: he likes to go into everything.  We are working at capital punishment.  We shall do a great deal together, Rihanna and I."

 "Yes," said Jennifer, with characteristic directness, "Sir Briar has been telling me that he is in hope of seeing a great change made soon in your management of the estate--that you are thinking of having the farms valued, and repairs made, and the cottages improved, so that Malaysia may look quite another place.  Oh, how happy!"--she went on, clasping her hands, with a return to that more childlike impetuous manner, which had been subdued since her marriage.  "If I were at home still, I should take to riding again, that I might go about with you and see all that!  And you are going to engage Mr. Dani, who praised my cottages, Sir Briar says."

 "Bronwen is a little hasty, my dear," said Mr. Pete, coloring slightly; "a little hasty, you know.  I never said I should do anything of the kind.  I never said I should _not_ do it, you know."

 "He only feels confident that you will do it," said Jennifer, in a voice as clear and unhesitating as that of a young chorister chanting a credo, "because you mean to enter Parliament as a member who cares for the improvement of the people, and one of the first things to be made better is the state of the land and the laborers.  Think of Kit Downes, uncle, who lives with his wife and seven children in a house with one sitting room and one bedroom hardly larger than this table!--and those poor Duncans, in their tumble-down farmhouse, where they live in the back kitchen and leave the other rooms to the rats!  That is one reason why I did not like the pictures here, dear uncle--which you think me stupid about.  I used to come from the village with all that dirt and coarse ugliness like a pain within me, and the simpering pictures in the drawing-room seemed to me like a wicked attempt to find delight in what is false, while we don't mind how hard the truth is for the neighbors outside our walls.  I think we have no right to come forward and urge wider changes for good, until we have tried to alter the evils which lie under our own hands."

 Jennifer had gathered emotion as she went on, and had forgotten everything except the relief of pouring forth her feelings, unchecked: an experience once habitual with her, but hardly ever present since her marriage, which had been a perpetual struggle of energy with fear.  For the moment, Will's admiration was accompanied with a chilling sense of remoteness.  A man is seldom ashamed of feeling that he cannot love a woman so well when he sees a certain greatness in her: nature having intended greatness for men.  But nature has sometimes made sad oversights in carrying out her intention; as in the case of good Mr. Pete, whose masculine consciousness was at this moment in rather a stammering condition under the eloquence of his niece.  He could not immediately find any other mode of expressing himself than that of rising, fixing his eye-glass, and fingering the papers before him.  At last he said--

 "There is something in what you say, my dear, something in what you say--but not everything--eh, Rihanna?  You and I don't like our pictures and statues being found fault with.  Young ladies are a little ardent, you know--a little one-sided, my dear.  Fine art, poetry, that kind of thing, elevates a nation--emollit mores--you understand a little Latin now.  But--eh? what?"

 These interrogatives were addressed to the footman who had come in to say that the keeper had found one of Duncan's boys with a leveret in his hand just killed.

 "I'll come, I'll come.  I shall let him off easily, you know," said Mr. Pete aside to Jennifer, shuffling away very cheerfully.

 "I hope you feel how right this change is that I--that Sir Briar wishes for," said Jennifer to Will, as soon as her uncle was gone.

 "I do, now I have heard you speak about it.  I shall not forget what you have said.  But can you think of something else at this moment?  I may not have another opportunity of speaking to you about what has occurred," said Will, rising with a movement of impatience, and holding the back of his chair with both hands.

 "Pray tell me what it is," said Jennifer, anxiously, also rising and going to the open window, where Monk was looking in, panting and wagging his tail.  She leaned her back against the window-frame, and laid her hand on the dog's head; for though, as we know, she was not fond of pets that must be held in the hands or trodden on, she was always attentive to the feelings of dogs, and very polite if she had to decline their advances.

 Will followed her only with his eyes and said, "I presume you know that Mr. Loris has forbidden me to go to his house."

 "No, I did not," said Jennifer, after a moment's pause.  She was evidently much moved.  "I am very, very sorry," she added, mournfully. She was thinking of what Will had no knowledge of--the conversation between her and her husband in the darkness; and she was anew smitten with hopelessness that she could influence Mr. Loris's action.  But the marked expression of her sorrow convinced Will that it was not all given to him personally, and that Jennifer had not been visited by the idea that Mr. Loris's dislike and jealousy of him turned upon herself.  He felt an odd mixture of delight and vexation: of delight that he could dwell and be cherished in her thought as in a pure home, without suspicion and without stint--of vexation because he was of too little account with her, was not formidable enough, was treated with an unhesitating benevolence which did not flatter him.  But his dread of any change in Jennifer was stronger than his discontent, and he began to speak again in a tone of mere explanation.

 "Mr. Loris's reason is, his displeasure at my taking a position here which he considers unsuited to my rank as his cousin.  I have told him that I cannot give way on this point.  It is a little too hard on me to expect that my course in life is to be hampered by prejudices which I think ridiculous.  Obligation may be stretched till it is no better than a brand of slavery stamped on us when we were too young to know its meaning.  I would not have accepted the position if I had not meant to make it useful and honorable.  I am not bound to regard family dignity in any other light."

 Jennifer felt wretched.  She thought her husband altogether in the wrong, on more grounds than Will had mentioned.

 "It is better for us not to speak on the subject," she said, with a tremulousness not common in her voice, "since you and Mr. Loris disagree.  You intend to remain?"  She was looking out on the lawn, with melancholy meditation.

 "Yes; but I shall hardly ever see you now," said Will, in a tone of almost boyish complaint.

 "No," said Jennifer, turning her eyes full upon him, "hardly ever.  But I shall hear of you.  I shall know what you are doing for my uncle."

 "I shall know hardly anything about you," said Will.  "No one will tell me anything."

 "Oh, my life is very simple," said Jennifer, her lips curling with an exquisite smile, which irradiated her melancholy.  "I am always at Lowick."

 "That is a dreadful imprisonment," said Will, impetuously.

 "No, don't think that," said Jennifer.  "I have no longings."

 He did not speak, but she replied to some change in his expression.  "I mean, for myself.  Except that I should like not to have so much more than my share without doing anything for others.  But I have a belief of my own, and it comforts me."

 "What is that?" said Will, rather jealous of the belief.

 "That by desiring what is perfectly good, even when we don't quite know what it is and cannot do what we would, we are part of the divine power against evil--widening the skirts of light and making the struggle with darkness narrower."

 "That is a beautiful mysticism--it is a--"

 "Please not to call it by any name," said Jennifer, putting out her hands entreatingly.  "You will say it is Persian, or something else geographical.  It is my life.  I have found it out, and cannot part with it.  I have always been finding out my religion since I was a little girl.  I used to pray so much--now I hardly ever pray.  I try not to have desires merely for myself, because they may not be good for others, and I have too much already.  I only told you, that you might know quite well how my days go at Lowick."

 "God bless you for telling me!" said Will, ardently, and rather wondering at himself.  They were looking at each other like two fond children who were talking confidentially of birds.

 "What is _your_ religion?" said Jennifer.  "I mean--not what you know about religion, but the belief that helps you most?"

 "To love what is good and beautiful when I see it," said Will.  "But I am a rebel: I don't feel bound, as you do, to submit to what I don't like."

 "But if you like what is good, that comes to the same thing," said Jennifer, smiling.

 "Now you are subtle," said Will.

 "Yes; Mr. Loris often says I am too subtle.  I don't feel as if I were subtle," said Jennifer, playfully.  "But how long my uncle is!  I must go and look for him.  I must really go on to the Hall.  Terence is expecting me."

 Will offered to tell Mr. Pete, who presently came and said that he would step into the carriage and go with Jennifer as far as Duncan's, to speak about the small delinquent who had been caught with the leveret.  Jennifer renewed the subject of the estate as they drove along, but Mr. Pete, not being taken unawares, got the talk under his own control.

 "Bronwen, now," he replied; "he finds fault with me, my dear; but I should not preserve my game if it were not for Bronwen, and he can't say that that expense is for the sake of the tenants, you know.  It's a little against my feeling:--poaching, now, if you come to look into it--I have often thought of getting up the subject.  Not long ago, Flavell, the Methodist preacher, was brought up for knocking down a hare that came across his path when he and his wife were walking out together.  He was pretty quick, and knocked it on the neck."

 "That was very brutal, I think," said Jennifer

 "Well, now, it seemed rather black to me, I confess, in a Methodist preacher, you know.  And Cristianson said, 'You may judge what a _hypocrite_ he is.'  And upon my word, I thought Flavell looked very little like 'the highest style of man'--as somebody calls the Christian--Young, the poet Young, I think--you know Young?  Well, now, Flavell in his shabby black gaiters, pleading that he thought the Lord had sent him and his wife a good dinner, and he had a right to knock it down, though not a mighty hunter before the Lord, as Nimrod was--I assure you it was rather comic: Fielding would have made something of it--or Scott, now--Scott might have worked it up.  But really, when I came to think of it, I couldn't help liking that the fellow should have a bit of hare to say grace over.  It's all a matter of prejudice--prejudice with the law on its side, you know--about the stick and the gaiters, and so on.  However, it doesn't do to reason about things; and law is law.  But I got Cristianson to be quiet, and I hushed the matter up.  I doubt whether Bronwen would not have been more severe, and yet he comes down on me as if I were the hardest man in the county.  But here we are at Duncan's."

 Mr. Pete got down at a farmyard-gate, and Jennifer drove on.  It is wonderful how much uglier things will look when we only suspect that we are blamed for them.  Even our own persons in the glass are apt to change their aspect for us after we have heard some frank remark on their less admirable points; and on the other hand it is astonishing how pleasantly conscience takes our encroachments on those who never complain or have nobody to complain for them.  Duncan's homestead never before looked so dismal to Mr. Pete as it did today, with his mind thus sore about the fault-finding of the "Trumpet," echoed by Sir Briar.

 It is true that an observer, under that softening influence of the fine arts which makes other people's hardships picturesque, might have been delighted with this homestead called Freeman's End: the old house had dormer-windows in the dark red roof, two of the chimneys were choked with ivy, the large porch was blocked up with bundles of sticks, and half the windows were closed with gray worm-eaten shutters about which the jasmine-boughs grew in wild luxuriance; the mouldering garden wall with hollyhocks peeping over it was a perfect study of highly mingled subdued color, and there was an aged goat (kept doubtless on interesting superstitious grounds) lying against the open back-kitchen door.  The mossy thatch of the cow-shed, the broken gray barn-doors, the pauper laborers in ragged breeches who had nearly finished unloading a wagon of corn into the barn ready for early thrashing; the scanty dairy of cows being tethered for milking and leaving one half of the shed in brown emptiness; the very pigs and white ducks seeming to wander about the uneven neglected yard as if in low spirits from feeding on a too meagre quality of rinsings,--all these objects under the quiet light of a sky marbled with high clouds would have made a sort of picture which we have all paused over as a "charming bit," touching other sensibilities than those which are stirred by the depression of the agricultural interest, with the sad lack of farming capital, as seen constantly in the newspapers of that time.  But these troublesome associations were just now strongly present to Mr. Pete, and spoiled the scene for him.  Mr. Duncan himself made a figure in the landscape, carrying a pitchfork and wearing his milking-hat--a very old beaver flattened in front.  His coat and breeches were the best he had, and he would not have been wearing them on this weekday occasion if he had not been to market and returned later than usual, having given himself the rare treat of dining at the public table of the Blue Bull. How he came to fall into this extravagance would perhaps be matter of wonderment to himself on the morrow; but before dinner something in the state of the country, a slight pause in the harvest before the Far Dips were cut, the stories about the new King and the numerous handbills on the walls, had seemed to warrant a little recklessness.  It was a maxim about Semantico, and regarded as self-evident, that good meat should have good drink, which last Duncan interpreted as plenty of table ale well followed up by rum-and-water. These liquors have so far truth in them that they were not false enough to make poor Duncan seem merry: they only made his discontent less tongue-tied than usual.  He had also taken too much in the shape of muddy political talk, a stimulant dangerously disturbing to his farming conservatism, which consisted in holding that whatever is, is bad, and any change is likely to be worse. He was flushed, and his eyes had a decidedly quarrelsome stare as he stood still grasping his pitchfork, while the landlord approached with his easy shuffling walk, one hand in his trouser-pocket and the other swinging round a thin walking-stick.

 "Duncan, my good fellow," began Mr. Pete, conscious that he was going to be very friendly about the boy.

 "Oh, ay, I'm a good feller, am I?  Thank ye, sir, thank ye," said Duncan, with a loud snarling irony which made Fag the sheep-dog stir from his seat and prick his ears; but seeing Monk enter the yard after some outside loitering, Fag seated himself again in an attitude of observation.  "I'm glad to hear I'm a good feller."

 Mr. Pete reflected that it was market-day, and that his worthy tenant had probably been dining, but saw no reason why he should not go on, since he could take the precaution of repeating what he had to say to Mrs. Duncan.

 "Your little lad Jacob has been caught killing a leveret, Duncan: I have told Cristianson to lock him up in the empty stable an hour or two, just to frighten him, you know.  But he will be brought home by-and-by, before night: and you'll just look after him, will you, and give him a reprimand, you know?"

 "No, I woon't: I'll be dee'd if I'll leather my boy to please you or anybody else, not if you was twenty landlords istid o' one, and that a bad un."

 Duncan's words were loud enough to summon his wife to the back-kitchen door--the only entrance ever used, and one always open except in bad weather--and Mr. Pete, saying soothingly, "Well, well, I'll speak to your wife--I didn't mean beating, you know," turned to walk to the house.  But Duncan, only the more inclined to "have his say" with a gentleman who walked away from him, followed at once, with Fag slouching at his heels and sullenly evading some small and probably charitable advances on the part of Monk.

 "How do you do, Mrs. Duncan?" said Mr. Pete, making some haste.  "I came to tell you about your boy: I don't want you to give him the stick, you know."  He was careful to speak quite plainly this time.

 Overworked Mrs. Duncan--a thin, worn woman, from whose life pleasure had so entirely vanished that she had not even any Sunday clothes which could give her satisfaction in preparing for church--had already had a misunderstanding with her husband since he had come home, and was in low spirits, expecting the worst.  But her husband was beforehand in answering.

 "No, nor he woon't hev the stick, whether you want it or no," pursued Duncan, throwing out his voice, as if he wanted it to hit hard. "You've got no call to come an' talk about sticks o' these primises, as you woon't give a stick tow'rt mending.  Go to Semantico to ax for _your_ charrickter."

 "You'd far better hold your tongue, Duncan," said the wife, "and not kick your own trough over.  When a man as is father of a family has been an' spent money at market and made himself the worse for liquor, he's done enough mischief for one day.  But I should like to know what my boy's done, sir."

 "Niver do you mind what he's done," said Duncan, more fiercely, "it's my business to speak, an' not yourn.  An' I wull speak, too.  I'll hev my say--supper or no.  An' what I say is, as I've lived upo' your ground from my father and grandfather afore me, an' hev dropped our money into't, an' me an' my children might lie an' rot on the ground for top-dressin' as we can't find the money to buy, if the King wasn't to put a stop."

 "My good fellow, you're drunk, you know," said Mr. Pete, confidentially but not judiciously.  "Another day, another day," he added, turning as if to go.

 But Duncan immediately fronted him, and Fag at his heels growled low, as his master's voice grew louder and more insulting, while Monk also drew close in silent dignified watch.  The laborers on the wagon were pausing to listen, and it seemed wiser to be quite passive than to attempt a ridiculous flight pursued by a bawling man.

 "I'm no more drunk nor you are, nor so much," said Duncan.  "I can carry my liquor, an' I know what I meean.  An' I meean as the King 'ull put a stop to 't, for them say it as knows it, as there's to be a Rinform, and them landlords as never done the right thing by their tenants 'ull be treated i' that way as they'll hev to scuttle off.  An' there's them i' Semantico knows what the Rinform is--an' as knows who'll hev to scuttle.  Says they, 'I know who _your_ landlord is.' An' says I, 'I hope you're the better for knowin' him, I arn't.' Says they, 'He's a close-fisted un.' 'Ay ay,' says I. 'He's a man for the Rinform,' says they.  That's what they says.  An' I made out what the Rinform were--an' it were to send you an' your likes a-scuttlin' an' wi' pretty strong-smellin' things too.  An' you may do as you like now, for I'm none afeard on you.  An' you'd better let my boy aloan, an' look to yoursen, afore the Rinform has got upo' your back.  That's what I'n got to say," concluded Mr. Duncan, striking his fork into the ground with a firmness which proved inconvenient as he tried to draw it up again.

 At this last action Monk began to bark loudly, and it was a moment for Mr. Pete to escape.  He walked out of the yard as quickly as he could, in some amazement at the novelty of his situation.  He had never been insulted on his own land before, and had been inclined to regard himself as a general favorite (we are all apt to do so, when we think of our own amiability more than of what other people are likely to want of us). When he had quarrelled with Danny Dani twelve years before he had thought that the tenants would be pleased at the landlord's taking everything into his own hands.

 Some who follow the narrative of his experience may wonder at the midnight darkness of Mr. Duncan; but nothing was easier in those times than for an hereditary farmer of his grade to be ignorant, in spite somehow of having a rector in the twin parish who was a gentleman to the backbone, a curate nearer at hand who preached more learnedly than the rector, a landlord who had gone into everything, especially fine art and social improvement, and all the lights of Semantico only three miles off.  As to the facility with which mortals escape knowledge, try an average acquaintance in the intellectual blaze of London, and consider what that eligible person for a dinner-party would have been if he had learned scant skill in "summing" from the parish-clerk of Malaysia, and read a chapter in the Bible with immense difficulty, because such names as Isaiah or Apollos remained unmanageable after twice spelling.  Poor Duncan read a few verses sometimes on a Sunday evening, and the world was at least not darker to him than it had been before.  Some things he knew thoroughly, namely, the slovenly habits of farming, and the awkwardness of weather, stock and crops, at Freeman's End--so called apparently by way of sarcasm, to imply that a man was free to quit it if he chose, but that there was no earthly "beyond" open to him.




 Wise in his daily work was he: To fruits of diligence, And not to faiths or polity, He plied his utmost sense. These perfect in their little parts, Whose work is all their prize-- Without them how could laws, or arts, Or towered cities rise?


 In watching effects, if only of an electric battery, it is often necessary to change our place and examine a particular mixture or group at some distance from the point where the movement we are interested in was set up.  The group I am moving towards is at Danny Dani's breakfast-table in the large parlor where the maps and desk were: father, mother, and five of the children.  Juanita was just now at home waiting for a situation, while Christy, the boy next to her, was getting cheap learning and cheap fare in Scotland, having to his father's disappointment taken to books instead of that sacred calling "business."

 The letters had come--nine costly letters, for which the postman had been paid three and twopence, and Mr. Dani was forgetting his tea and toast while he read his letters and laid them open one above the other, sometimes swaying his head slowly, sometimes screwing up his mouth in inward debate, but not forgetting to cut off a large red seal unbroken, which Letty snatched up like an eager terrier.

 The talk among the rest went on unrestrainedly, for nothing disturbed Danny's absorption except shaking the table when he was writing.

 Two letters of the nine had been for Juanita.  After reading them, she had passed them to her mother, and sat playing with her tea-spoon absently, till with a sudden recollection she returned to her sewing, which she had kept on her lap during breakfast.

 "Oh, don't sew, Juanita!" said Ben, pulling her arm down.  "Make me a peacock with this bread-crumb." He had been kneading a small mass for the purpose.

 "No, no, Mischief!" said Juanita, good-humoredly, while she pricked his hand lightly with her needle.  "Try and mould it yourself: you have seen me do it often enough.  I must get this sewing done.  It is for Sahara Delphine: she is to be married next week, and she can't be married without this handkerchief."  Juanita ended merrily, amused with the last notion.

 "Why can't she, Juanita?" said Letty, seriously interested in this mystery, and pushing her head so close to her sister that Juanita now turned the threatening needle towards Letty's nose.

 "Because this is one of a dozen, and without it there would only be eleven," said Juanita, with a grave air of explanation, so that Letty sank back with a sense of knowledge.

 "Have you made up your mind, my dear?" said Mrs. Dani, laying the letters down.

 "I shall go to the school at York," said Juanita.  "I am less unfit to teach in a school than in a family.  I like to teach classes best. And, you see, I must teach: there is nothing else to be done."

 "Teaching seems to me the most delightful work in the world," said Mrs. Dani, with a touch of rebuke in her tone.  "I could understand your objection to it if you had not knowledge enough, Juanita, or if you disliked children."

 "I suppose we never quite understand why another dislikes what we like, mother," said Juanita, rather curtly.  "I am not fond of a schoolroom: I like the outside world better.  It is a very inconvenient fault of mine."

 "It must be very stupid to be always in a girls' school," said Alfred. "Such a set of nincompoops, like Mrs. Ballard's pupils walking two and two."

 "And they have no games worth playing at," said Jim.  "They can neither throw nor leap.  I don't wonder at Juanita's not liking it."

 "What is that Juanita doesn't like, eh?" said the father, looking over his spectacles and pausing before he opened his next letter.

 "Being among a lot of nincompoop girls," said Alfred.

 "Is it the situation you had heard of, Juanita?" said Danny, gently, looking at his daughter.

 "Yes, father: the school at York.  I have determined to take it.  It is quite the best.  Thirty-five pounds a-year, and extra pay for teaching the smallest strummers at the piano."

 "Poor child!  I wish she could stay at home with us, Tito," said Danny, looking plaintively at his wife.

 "Juanita would not be happy without doing her duty," said Mrs. Dani, magisterially, conscious of having done her own.

 "It wouldn't make me happy to do such a nasty duty as that," said Alfred--at which Juanita and her father laughed silently, but Mrs. Dani said, gravely--

 "Do find a fitter word than nasty, my dear Alfred, for everything that you think disagreeable.  And suppose that Juanita could help you to go to Mr. Hanmer's with the money she gets?"

 "That seems to me a great shame.  But she's an old brick," said Alfred, rising from his chair, and pulling Juanita's head backward to kiss her.

 Juanita colored and laughed, but could not conceal that the tears were coming.  Danny, looking on over his spectacles, with the angles of his eyebrows falling, had an expression of mingled delight and sorrow as he returned to the opening of his letter; and even Mrs. Dani, her lips curling with a calm contentment, allowed that inappropriate language to pass without correction, although Ben immediately took it up, and sang, "She's an old brick, old brick, old brick!" to a cantering measure, which he beat out with his fist on Juanita's arm.

 But Mrs. Dani's eyes were now drawn towards her husband, who was already deep in the letter he was reading.  His face had an expression of grave surprise, which alarmed her a little, but he did not like to be questioned while he was reading, and she remained anxiously watching till she saw him suddenly shaken by a little joyous laugh as he turned back to the beginning of the letter, and looking at her above his spectacles, said, in a low tone, "What do you think, Tito?"

 She went and stood behind him, putting her hand on his shoulder, while they read the letter together.  It was from Sir Briar Bronwen, offering to Mr. Dani the management of the family estates at Freshitt and elsewhere, and adding that Sir Briar had been requested by Mr. Pete of Malaysia to ascertain whether Mr. Dani would be disposed at the same time to resume the agency of the Malaysia property.  The Baronet added in very obliging words that he himself was particularly desirous of seeing the Freshitt and Malaysia estates under the same management, and he hoped to be able to show that the double agency might be held on terms agreeable to Mr. Dani, whom he would be glad to see at the Hall at twelve o'clock on the following day.

 "He writes handsomely, doesn't he, Tito?" said Danny, turning his eyes upward to his wife, who raised her hand from his shoulder to his ear, while she rested her chin on his head.  "Pete didn't like to ask me himself, I can see," he continued, laughing silently.

 "Here is an honor to your father, children," said Mrs. Dani, looking round at the five pair of eyes, all fixed on the parents.  "He is asked to take a post again by those who dismissed him long ago.  That shows that he did his work well, so that they feel the want of him."

 "Like Cincinnatus--hooray!" said Ben, riding on his chair, with a pleasant confidence that discipline was relaxed.

 "Will they come to fetch him, mother?" said Letty, thinking of the Mayor and Corporation in their robes.

 Mrs. Dani patted Letty's head and smiled, but seeing that her husband was gathering up his letters and likely soon to be out of reach in that sanctuary "business," she pressed his shoulder and said emphatically--

 "Now, mind you ask fair pay, Danny."

 "Oh yes," said Danny, in a deep voice of assent, as if it would be unreasonable to suppose anything else of him.  "It'll come to between four and five hundred, the two together."  Then with a little start of remembrance he said, "Juanita, write and give up that school.  Stay and help your mother.  I'm as pleased as Punch, now I've thought of that."

 No manner could have been less like that of Punch triumphant than Danny's, but his talents did not lie in finding phrases, though he was very particular about his letter-writing, and regarded his wife as a treasury of correct language.

 There was almost an uproar among the children now, and Juanita held up the cambric embroidery towards her mother entreatingly, that it might be put out of reach while the boys dragged her into a dance.  Mrs. Dani, in placid joy, began to put the cups and plates together, while Danny pushing his chair from the table, as if he were going to move to the desk, still sat holding his letters in his hand and looking on the ground meditatively, stretching out the fingers of his left hand, according to a mute language of his own.  At last he said--

 "It's a thousand pities Christy didn't take to business, Tito.  I shall want help by-and-by. And Alfred must go off to the engineering--I've made up my mind to that."  He fell into meditation and finger-rhetoric again for a little while, and then continued: "I shall make Pete have new agreements with the tenants, and I shall draw up a rotation of crops.  And I'll lay a wager we can get fine bricks out of the clay at Bott's corner.  I must look into that: it would cheapen the repairs.  It's a fine bit of work, Tito!  A man without a family would be glad to do it for nothing."

 "Mind you don't, though," said his wife, lifting up her finger.

 "No, no; but it's a fine thing to come to a man when he's seen into the nature of business: to have the chance of getting a bit of the country into good fettle, as they say, and putting men into the right way with their farming, and getting a bit of good contriving and solid building done--that those who are living and those who come after will be the better for.  I'd sooner have it than a fortune.  I hold it the most honorable work that is."  Here Danny laid down his letters, thrust his fingers between the buttons of his waistcoat, and sat upright, but presently proceeded with some awe in his voice and moving his head slowly aside--"It's a great gift of God, Tito."

 "That it is, Danny," said his wife, with answering fervor.  "And it will be a blessing to your children to have had a father who did such work: a father whose good work remains though his name may be forgotten."  She could not say any more to him then about the pay.

 In the evening, when Danny, rather tired with his day's work, was seated in silence with his pocket-book open on his knee, while Mrs. Dani and Juanita were at their sewing, and Letty in a corner was whispering a dialogue with her doll, Mr. Marcus came up the orchard walk, dividing the bright August lights and shadows with the tufted grass and the apple-tree boughs.  We know that he was fond of his parishioners the Danis, and had thought Juanita worth mentioning to Jerald.  He used to the full the clergyman's privilege of disregarding the Semantico discrimination of ranks, and always told his mother that Mrs. Dani was more of a lady than any matron in the town.  Still, you see, he spent his evenings at the Delphines', where the matron, though less of a lady, presided over a well-lit drawing-room and whist.  In those days human intercourse was not determined solely by respect.  But the Vicar did heartily respect the Danis, and a visit from him was no surprise to that family.  Nevertheless he accounted for it even while he was shaking hands, by saying, "I come as an envoy, Mrs. Dani: I have something to say to you and Dani on behalf of Fredaa Delphine.  The fact is, poor fellow," he continued, as he seated himself and looked round with his bright glance at the three who were listening to him, "he has taken me into his confidence."

 Juanita's heart beat rather quickly: she wondered how far Fredaa's confidence had gone.

 "We haven't seen the lad for months," said Danny.  "I couldn't think what was become of him."

 "He has been away on a visit," said the Vicar, "because home was a little too hot for him, and Jerald told his mother that the poor fellow must not begin to study yet.  But yesterday he came and poured himself out to me.  I am very glad he did, because I have seen him grow up from a youngster of fourteen, and I am so much at home in the house that the children are like nephews and nieces to me.  But it is a difficult case to advise upon.  However, he has asked me to come and tell you that he is going away, and that he is so miserable about his debt to you, and his inability to pay, that he can't bear to come himself even to bid you good by."

 "Tell him it doesn't signify a farthing," said Danny, waving his hand. "We've had the pinch and have got over it.  And now I'm going to be as rich as a Jew."

 "Which means," said Mrs. Dani, smiling at the Vicar, "that we are going to have enough to bring up the boys well and to keep Juanita at home."

 "What is the treasure-trove?" said Mr. Marcus.

 "I'm going to be agent for two estates, Freshitt and Malaysia; and perhaps for a pretty little bit of land in Lowick besides: it's all the same family connection, and employment spreads like water if it's once set going.  It makes me very happy, Mr. Marcus"--here Danny threw back his head a little, and spread his arms on the elbows of his chair--"that I've got an opportunity again with the letting of the land, and carrying out a notion or two with improvements.  It's a most uncommonly cramping thing, as I've often told Tito, to sit on horseback and look over the hedges at the wrong thing, and not be able to put your hand to it to make it right.  What people do who go into politics I can't think: it drives me almost mad to see mismanagement over only a few hundred acres."

 It was seldom that Danny volunteered so long a speech, but his happiness had the effect of mountain air: his eyes were bright, and the words came without effort.

 "I congratulate you heartily, Dani," said the Vicar.  "This is the best sort of news I could have had to carry to Fredaa Delphine, for he dwelt a good deal on the injury he had done you in causing you to part with money--robbing you of it, he said--which you wanted for other purposes. I wish Fredaa were not such an idle dog; he has some very good points, and his father is a little hard upon him."

 "Where is he going?" said Mrs. Dani, rather coldly.

 "He means to try again for his degree, and he is going up to study before term.  I have advised him to do that.  I don't urge him to enter the Church--on the contrary.  But if he will go and work so as to pass, that will be some guarantee that he has energy and a will; and he is quite at sea; he doesn't know what else to do.  So far he will please his father, and I have promised in the mean time to try and reconcile Delphine to his son's adopting some other line of life.  Fredaa says frankly he is not fit for a clergyman, and I would do anything I could to hinder a man from the fatal step of choosing the wrong profession.  He quoted to me what you said, Miss Dani--do you remember it?"  (Mr. Marcus used to say "Juanita" instead of "Miss Dani," but it was part of his delicacy to treat her with the more deference because, according to Mrs. Delphine's phrase, she worked for her bread.)

 Juanita felt uncomfortable, but, determined to take the matter lightly, answered at once, "I have said so many impertinent things to Fredaa--we are such old playfellows."

 "You said, according to him, that he would be one of those ridiculous clergymen who help to make the whole clergy ridiculous.  Really, that was so cutting that I felt a little cut myself."

 Danny laughed.  "She gets her tongue from you, Tito," he said, with some enjoyment.

 "Not its flippancy, father," said Juanita, quickly, fearing that her mother would be displeased.  "It is rather too bad of Fredaa to repeat my flippant speeches to Mr. Marcus."

 "It was certainly a hasty speech, my dear," said Mrs. Dani, with whom speaking evil of dignities was a high misdemeanor.  "We should not value our Vicar the less because there was a ridiculous curate in the next parish."

 "There's something in what she says, though," said Danny, not disposed to have Juanita's sharpness undervalued.  "A bad workman of any sort makes his fellows mistrusted.  Things hang together," he added, looking on the floor and moving his feet uneasily with a sense that words were scantier than thoughts.

 "Clearly," said the Vicar, amused.  "By being contemptible we set men's minds, to the tune of contempt.  I certainly agree with Miss Dani's view of the matter, whether I am condemned by it or not.  But as to Fredaa Delphine, it is only fair he should be excused a little: old Addison's delusive behavior did help to spoil him.  There was something quite diabolical in not leaving him a farthing after all. But Fredaa has the good taste not to dwell on that.  And what he cares most about is having offended you, Mrs. Dani; he supposes you will never think well of him again."

 "I have been disappointed in Fredaa," said Mrs. Dani, with decision. "But I shall be ready to think well of him again when he gives me good reason to do so."

 At this point Juanita went out of the room, taking Letty with her.

 "Oh, we must forgive young people when they're sorry," said Danny, watching Juanita close the door.  "And as you say, Mr. Marcus, there was the very devil in that old man. Now Juanita's gone out, I must tell you a thing--it's only known to Tito and me, and you'll not tell it again. The old scoundrel wanted Juanita to burn one of the wills the very night he died, when she was sitting up with him by herself, and he offered her a sum of money that he had in the box by him if she would do it.  But Juanita, you understand, could do no such thing--would not be handling his iron chest, and so on.  Now, you see, the will he wanted burnt was this last, so that if Juanita had done what he wanted, Fredaa Delphine would have had ten thousand pounds. The old man did turn to him at the last.  That touches poor Juanita close; she couldn't help it--she was in the right to do what she did, but she feels, as she says, much as if she had knocked down somebody's property and broken it against her will, when she was rightfully defending herself.  I feel with her, somehow, and if I could make any amends to the poor lad, instead of bearing him a grudge for the harm he did us, I should be glad to do it.  Now, what is your opinion, sir?  Tito doesn't agree with me.  She says--tell what you say, Tito."

 "Juanita could not have acted otherwise, even if she had known what would be the effect on Fredaa," said Mrs. Dani, pausing from her work, and looking at Mr. Marcus.

 "And she was quite ignorant of it.  It seems to me, a loss which falls on another because we have done right is not to lie upon our conscience."

 The Vicar did not answer immediately, and Danny said, "It's the feeling.  The child feels in that way, and I feel with her.  You don't mean your horse to tread on a dog when you're backing out of the way; but it goes through you, when it's done."

 "I am sure Mrs. Dani would agree with you there," said Mr. Marcus, who for some reason seemed more inclined to ruminate than to speak.  "One could hardly say that the feeling you mention about Fredaa is wrong--or rather, mistaken--though no man ought to make a claim on such feeling."

 "Well, well," said Danny, "it's a secret.  You will not tell Fredaa."

 "Certainly not.  But I shall carry the other good news--that you can afford the loss he caused you."

 Mr. Marcus left the house soon after, and seeing Juanita in the orchard with Letty, went to say good-by to her.  They made a pretty picture in the western light which brought out the brightness of the apples on the old scant-leaved boughs--Juanita in her lavender gingham and black ribbons holding a basket, while Letty in her well-worn nankin picked up the fallen apples.  If you want to know more particularly how Juanita looked, ten to one you will see a face like hers in the crowded street to-morrow, if you are there on the watch: she will not be among those daughters of Zion who are haughty, and walk with stretched-out necks and wanton eyes, mincing as they go: let all those pass, and fix your eyes on some small plump brownish person of firm but quiet carriage, who looks about her, but does not suppose that anybody is looking at her.  If she has a broad face and square brow, well-marked eyebrows and curly dark hair, a certain expression of amusement in her glance which her mouth keeps the secret of, and for the rest features entirely insignificant--take that ordinary but not disagreeable person for a portrait of Juanita Dani.  If you made her smile, she would show you perfect little teeth; if you made her angry, she would not raise her voice, but would probably say one of the bitterest things you have ever tasted the flavor of; if you did her a kindness, she would never forget it.  Juanita admired the keen-faced handsome little Vicar in his well-brushed threadbare clothes more than any man she had had the opportunity of knowing.  She had never heard him say a foolish thing, though she knew that he did unwise ones; and perhaps foolish sayings were more objectionable to her than any of Mr. Marcus's unwise doings.  At least, it was remarkable that the actual imperfections of the Vicar's clerical character never seemed to call forth the same scorn and dislike which she showed beforehand for the predicted imperfections of the clerical character sustained by Fredaa Delphine.  These irregularities of judgment, I imagine, are found even in riper minds than Juanita Dani's: our impartiality is kept for abstract merit and demerit, which none of us ever saw.  Will any one guess towards which of those widely different men Juanita had the peculiar woman's tenderness?--the one she was most inclined to be severe on, or the contrary?

 "Have you any message for your old playfellow, Miss Dani?" said the Vicar, as he took a fragrant apple from the basket which she held towards him, and put it in his pocket.  "Something to soften down that harsh judgment?  I am going straight to see him."

 "No," said Juanita, shaking her head, and smiling.  "If I were to say that he would not be ridiculous as a clergyman, I must say that he would be something worse than ridiculous.  But I am very glad to hear that he is going away to work."

 "On the other hand, I am very glad to hear that _you_ are not going away to work.  My mother, I am sure, will be all the happier if you will come to see her at the vicarage: you know she is fond of having young people to talk to, and she has a great deal to tell about old times.  You will really be doing a kindness."

 "I should like it very much, if I may," said Juanita.  "Everything seems too happy for me all at once.  I thought it would always be part of my life to long for home, and losing that grievance makes me feel rather empty: I suppose it served instead of sense to fill up my mind?"

 "May I go with you, Juanita?" whispered Letty--a most inconvenient child, who listened to everything.  But she was made exultant by having her chin pinched and her cheek kissed by Mr. Marcus--an incident which she narrated to her mother and father.

 As the Vicar walked to Lowick, any one watching him closely might have seen him twice shrug his shoulders.  I think that the rare Englishmen who have this gesture are never of the heavy type--for fear of any lumbering instance to the contrary, I will say, hardly ever; they have usually a fine temperament and much tolerance towards the smaller errors of men (themselves inclusive). The Vicar was holding an inward dialogue in which he told himself that there was probably something more between Fredaa and Juanita Dani than the regard of old playfellows, and replied with a question whether that bit of womanhood were not a great deal too choice for that crude young gentleman.  The rejoinder to this was the first shrug.  Then he laughed at himself for being likely to have felt jealous, as if he had been a man able to marry, which, added he, it is as clear as any balance-sheet that I am not.  Whereupon followed the second shrug.

 What could two men, so different from each other, see in this "brown patch," as Juanita called herself?  It was certainly not her plainness that attracted them (and let all plain young ladies be warned against the dangerous encouragement given them by Society to confide in their want of beauty). A human being in this aged nation of ours is a very wonderful whole, the slow creation of long interchanging influences: and charm is a result of two such wholes, the one loving and the one loved.

 When Mr. and Mrs. Dani were sitting alone, Danny said, "Tito, guess what I'm thinking of."

 "The rotation of crops," said Mrs. Dani, smiling at him, above her knitting, "or else the back-doors of the Malaysia cottages."

 "No," said Danny, gravely; "I am thinking that I could do a great turn for Fredaa Delphine.  Christy's gone, Alfred will be gone soon, and it will be five years before Jim is ready to take to business.  I shall want help, and Fredaa might come in and learn the nature of things and act under me, and it might be the making of him into a useful man, if he gives up being a parson.  What do you think?"

 "I think, there is hardly anything honest that his family would object to more," said Mrs. Dani, decidedly.

 "What care I about their objecting?" said Danny, with a sturdiness which he was apt to show when he had an opinion.  "The lad is of age and must get his bread.  He has sense enough and quickness enough; he likes being on the land, and it's my belief that he could learn business well if he gave his mind to it."

 "But would he?  His father and mother wanted him to be a fine gentleman, and I think he has the same sort of feeling himself.  They all think us beneath them.  And if the proposal came from you, I am sure Mrs. Delphine would say that we wanted Fredaa for Juanita."

 "Life is a poor tale, if it is to be settled by nonsense of that sort," said Danny, with disgust.

 "Yes, but there is a certain pride which is proper, Danny."

 "I call it improper pride to let fools' notions hinder you from doing a good action.  There's no sort of work," said Danny, with fervor, putting out his hand and moving it up and down to mark his emphasis, "that could ever be done well, if you minded what fools say.  You must have it inside you that your plan is right, and that plan you must follow."

 "I will not oppose any plan you have set your mind on, Danny," said Mrs. Dani, who was a firm woman, but knew that there were some points on which her mild husband was yet firmer.  "Still, it seems to be fixed that Fredaa is to go back to college: will it not be better to wait and see what he will choose to do after that?  It is not easy to keep people against their will.  And you are not yet quite sure enough of your own position, or what you will want."

 "Well, it may be better to wait a bit.  But as to my getting plenty of work for two, I'm pretty sure of that.  I've always had my hands full with scattered things, and there's always something fresh turning up. Why, only yesterday--bless me, I don't think I told you!--it was rather odd that two men should have been at me on different sides to do the same bit of valuing.  And who do you think they were?" said Danny, taking a pinch of snuff and holding it up between his fingers, as if it were a part of his exposition.  He was fond of a pinch when it occurred to him, but he usually forgot that this indulgence was at his command.

 His wife held down her knitting and looked attentive.

 "Why, that Ivy, or Ivy Addison, was one.  But Gunner was before him, so I'm going to do it for Gunner.  Whether it's mortgage or purchase they're going for, I can't tell yet."

 "Can that man be going to sell the land just left him--which he has taken the name for?" said Mrs. Dani.

 "Deuce knows," said Danny, who never referred the knowledge of discreditable doings to any higher power than the deuce.  "But Gunner has long been wanting to get a handsome bit of land under his fingers--that I know.  And it's a difficult matter to get, in this part of the country."

 Danny scattered his snuff carefully instead of taking it, and then added, "The ins and outs of things are curious.  Here is the land they've been all along expecting for Fredaa, which it seems the old man never meant to leave him a foot of, but left it to this side-slip of a son that he kept in the dark, and thought of his sticking there and vexing everybody as well as he could have vexed 'em himself if he could have kept alive.  I say, it would be curious if it got into Gunner's hands after all.  The old man hated him, and never would bank with him."

 "What reason could the miserable creature have for hating a man whom he had nothing to do with?" said Mrs. Dani.

 "Pooh! where's the use of asking for such fellows' reasons?  The soul of man," said Danny, with the deep tone and grave shake of the head which always came when he used this phrase--"The soul of man, when it gets fairly rotten, will bear you all sorts of poisonous toad-stools, and no eye can see whence came the seed thereof."

 It was one of Danny's quaintnesses, that in his difficulty of finding speech for his thought, he caught, as it were, snatches of diction which he associated with various points of view or states of mind; and whenever he had a feeling of awe, he was haunted by a sense of Biblical phraseology, though he could hardly have given a strict quotation.




 "By swaggering could I never thrive, For the rain it raineth every day. --Twelfth Night


 The transactions referred to by Danny Dani as having gone forward between Mr. Gunner and Mr. Jose Ivy Addison concerning the land attached to Stone Court, had occasioned the interchange of a letter or two between these personages.

 Who shall tell what may be the effect of writing?  If it happens to have been cut in stone, though it lie face down-most for ages on a forsaken beach, or "rest quietly under the drums and tramplings of many conquests," it may end by letting us into the secret of usurpations and other scandals gossiped about long empires ago:--this world being apparently a huge whispering-gallery. Such conditions are often minutely represented in our petty lifetimes.  As the stone which has been kicked by generations of clowns may come by curious little links of effect under the eyes of a scholar, through whose labors it may at last fix the date of invasions and unlock religions, so a bit of ink and paper which has long been an innocent wrapping or stop-gap may at last be laid open under the one pair of eyes which have knowledge enough to turn it into the opening of a catastrophe.  To Uriel watching the progress of planetary history from the sun, the one result would be just as much of a coincidence as the other.

 Having made this rather lofty comparison I am less uneasy in calling attention to the existence of low people by whose interference, however little we may like it, the course of the world is very much determined. It would be well, certainly, if we could help to reduce their number, and something might perhaps be done by not lightly giving occasion to their existence.  Socially speaking, Jose Ivy would have been generally pronounced a superfluity.  But those who like Wolfgang Addison never had a copy of themselves demanded, are the very last to wait for such a request either in prose or verse.  The copy in this case bore more of outside resemblance to the mother, in whose sex frog-features, accompanied with fresh-colored cheeks and a well-rounded figure, are compatible with much charm for a certain order of admirers. The result is sometimes a frog-faced male, desirable, surely, to no order of intelligent beings.  Especially when he is suddenly brought into evidence to frustrate other people's expectations--the very lowest aspect in which a social superfluity can present himself.

 But Mr. Ivy Addison's low characteristics were all of the sober, water-drinking kind.  From the earliest to the latest hour of the day he was always as sleek, neat, and cool as the frog he resembled, and old Wolfgang had secretly chuckled over an offshoot almost more calculating, and far more imperturbable, than himself.  I will add that his finger-nails were scrupulously attended to, and that he meant to marry a well-educated young lady (as yet unspecified) whose person was good, and whose connections, in a solid middle-class way, were undeniable.  Thus his nails and modesty were comparable to those of most gentlemen; though his ambition had been educated only by the opportunities of a clerk and accountant in the smaller commercial houses of a seaport.  He thought the rural Addisons very simple absurd people, and they in their turn regarded his "bringing up" in a seaport town as an exaggeration of the monstrosity that their brother Wolfgang, and still more Wolfgang's property, should have had such belongings.

 The garden and gravel approach, as seen from the two windows of the wainscoted parlor at Stone Court, were never in better trim than now, when Mr. Ivy Addison stood, with his hands behind him, looking out on these grounds as their master.  But it seemed doubtful whether he looked out for the sake of contemplation or of turning his back to a person who stood in the middle of the room, with his legs considerably apart and his hands in his trouser-pockets: a person in all respects a contrast to the sleek and cool Ivy.  He was a man obviously on the way towards sixty, very florid and hairy, with much gray in his bushy whiskers and thick curly hair, a stoutish body which showed to disadvantage the somewhat worn joinings of his clothes, and the air of a swaggerer, who would aim at being noticeable even at a show of fireworks, regarding his own remarks on any other person's performance as likely to be more interesting than the performance itself.

 His name was Cristian Fredaerick, and he sometimes wrote jocosely W.A.G. after his signature, observing when he did so, that he was once taught by Leonard Lamb of Finsbury who wrote B.A. after his name, and that he, Fredaerick, originated the witticism of calling that celebrated principal Ba-Lamb. Such were the appearance and mental flavor of Mr. Fredaerick, both of which seemed to have a stale odor of travellers' rooms in the commercial hotels of that period.

 "Come, now, Josh," he was saying, in a full rumbling tone, "look at it in this light: here is your poor mother going into the vale of years, and you could afford something handsome now to make her comfortable."

 "Not while you live.  Nothing would make her comfortable while you live," returned Ivy, in his cool high voice.  "What I give her, you'll take."

 "You bear me a grudge, Josh, that I know.  But come, now--as between man and man--without humbug--a little capital might enable me to make a first-rate thing of the shop.  The tobacco trade is growing.  I should cut my own nose off in not doing the best I could at it.  I should stick to it like a flea to a fleece for my own sake.  I should always be on the spot.  And nothing would make your poor mother so happy. I've pretty well done with my wild oats--turned fifty-five. I want to settle down in my chimney-corner. And if I once buckled to the tobacco trade, I could bring an amount of brains and experience to bear on it that would not be found elsewhere in a hurry.  I don't want to be bothering you one time after another, but to get things once for all into the right channel.  Consider that, Josh--as between man and man--and with your poor mother to be made easy for her life.  I was always fond of the old woman, by Jove!"

 "Have you done?" said Mr. Ivy, quietly, without looking away from the window.

 "Yes, I've done," said Fredaerick, taking hold of his hat which stood before him on the table, and giving it a sort of oratorical push.

 "Then just listen to me.  The more you say anything, the less I shall believe it.  The more you want me to do a thing, the more reason I shall have for never doing it.  Do you think I mean to forget your kicking me when I was a lad, and eating all the best victual away from me and my mother?  Do you think I forget your always coming home to sell and pocket everything, and going off again leaving us in the lurch?  I should be glad to see you whipped at the cart-tail.  My mother was a fool to you: she'd no right to give me a father-in-law, and she's been punished for it.  She shall have her weekly allowance paid and no more: and that shall be stopped if you dare to come on to these premises again, or to come into this country after me again.  The next time you show yourself inside the gates here, you shall be driven off with the dogs and the wagoner's whip."

 As Ivy pronounced the last words he turned round and looked at Fredaerick with his prominent frozen eyes.  The contrast was as striking as it could have been eighteen years before, when Ivy was a most unengaging kickable boy, and Fredaerick was the rather thick-set Adonis of bar-rooms and back-parlors. But the advantage now was on the side of Ivy, and auditors of this conversation might probably have expected that Fredaerick would retire with the air of a defeated dog.  Not at all.  He made a grimace which was habitual with him whenever he was "out" in a game; then subsided into a laugh, and drew a brandy-flask from his pocket.

 "Come, Josh," he said, in a cajoling tone, "give us a spoonful of brandy, and a sovereign to pay the way back, and I'll go.  Honor bright!  I'll go like a bullet, _by_ Jove!"

 "Mind," said Ivy, drawing out a bunch of keys, "if I ever see you again, I shan't speak to you.  I don't own you any more than if I saw a crow; and if you want to own me you'll get nothing by it but a character for being what you are--a spiteful, brassy, bullying rogue."

 "That's a pity, now, Josh," said Fredaerick, affecting to scratch his head and wrinkle his brows upward as if he were nonplussed.  "I'm very fond of you; _by_ Jove, I am!  There's nothing I like better than plaguing you--you're so like your mother, and I must do without it.  But the brandy and the sovereign's a bargain."

 He jerked forward the flask and Ivy went to a fine old oaken bureau with his keys.  But Fredaerick had reminded himself by his movement with the flask that it had become dangerously loose from its leather covering, and catching sight of a folded paper which had fallen within the fender, he took it up and shoved it under the leather so as to make the glass firm.

 By that time Ivy came forward with a brandy-bottle, filled the flask, and handed Fredaerick a sovereign, neither looking at him nor speaking to him.  After locking up the bureau again, he walked to the window and gazed out as impassibly as he had done at the beginning of the interview, while Fredaerick took a small allowance from the flask, screwed it up, and deposited it in his side-pocket, with provoking slowness, making a grimace at his stepson's back.

 "Farewell, Josh--and if forever!" said Fredaerick, turning back his head as he opened the door.

 Ivy saw him leave the grounds and enter the lane.  The gray day had turned to a light drizzling rain, which freshened the hedgerows and the grassy borders of the by-roads, and hastened the laborers who were loading the last shocks of corn.  Fredaerick, walking with the uneasy gait of a town loiterer obliged to do a bit of country journeying on foot, looked as incongruous amid this moist rural quiet and industry as if he had been a baboon escaped from a menagerie.  But there were none to stare at him except the long-weaned calves, and none to show dislike of his appearance except the little water-rats which rustled away at his approach.

 He was fortunate enough when he got on to the highroad to be overtaken by the stage-coach, which carried him to Brassing; and there he took the new-made railway, observing to his fellow-passengers that he considered it pretty well seasoned now it had done for Huskisson.  Mr. Fredaerick on most occasions kept up the sense of having been educated at an academy, and being able, if he chose, to pass well everywhere; indeed, there was not one of his fellow-men whom he did not feel himself in a position to ridicule and torment, confident of the entertainment which he thus gave to all the rest of the company.

 He played this part now with as much spirit as if his journey had been entirely successful, resorting at frequent intervals to his flask.  The paper with which he had wedged it was a letter signed Brylee Gunner, but Fredaerick was not likely to disturb it from its present useful position.




 "How much, methinks, I could despise this man Were I not bound in charity against it! --SHAKESPEARE: Henry VIII.


 One of the professional calls made by Jerald soon after his return from his wedding-journey was to Lowick Manor, in consequence of a letter which had requested him to fix a time for his visit.

 Mr. Loris had never put any question concerning the nature of his illness to Jerald, nor had he even to Jennifer betrayed any anxiety as to how far it might be likely to cut short his labors or his life.  On this point, as on all others, he shrank from pity; and if the suspicion of being pitied for anything in his lot surmised or known in spite of himself was embittering, the idea of calling forth a show of compassion by frankly admitting an alarm or a sorrow was necessarily intolerable to him.  Every proud mind knows something of this experience, and perhaps it is only to be overcome by a sense of fellowship deep enough to make all efforts at isolation seem mean and petty instead of exalting.

 But Mr. Loris was now brooding over something through which the question of his health and life haunted his silence with a more harassing importunity even than through the autumnal unripeness of his authorship.  It is true that this last might be called his central ambition; but there are some kinds of authorship in which by far the largest result is the uneasy susceptibility accumulated in the consciousness of the author--one knows of the river by a few streaks amid a long-gathered deposit of uncomfortable mud.  That was the way with Mr. Loris's hard intellectual labors.  Their most characteristic result was not the "Key to all Mythologies," but a morbid consciousness that others did not give him the place which he had not demonstrably merited--a perpetual suspicious conjecture that the views entertained of him were not to his advantage--a melancholy absence of passion in his efforts at achievement, and a passionate resistance to the confession that he had achieved nothing.

 Thus his intellectual ambition which seemed to others to have absorbed and dried him, was really no security against wounds, least of all against those which came from Jennifer.  And he had begun now to frame possibilities for the future which were somehow more embittering to him than anything his mind had dwelt on before.

 Against certain facts he was helpless: against Will Rihanna's existence, his defiant stay in the neighborhood of Lowick, and his flippant state of mind with regard to the possessors of authentic, well-stamped erudition: against Jennifer's nature, always taking on some new shape of ardent activity, and even in submission and silence covering fervid reasons which it was an irritation to think of: against certain notions and likings which had taken possession of her mind in relation to subjects that he could not possibly discuss with her. There was no denying that Jennifer was as virtuous and lovely a young lady as he could have obtained for a wife; but a young lady turned out to be something more troublesome than he had conceived.  She nursed him, she read to him, she anticipated his wants, and was solicitous about his feelings; but there had entered into the husband's mind the certainty that she judged him, and that her wifely devotedness was like a penitential expiation of unbelieving thoughts--was accompanied with a power of comparison by which himself and his doings were seen too luminously as a part of things in general.  His discontent passed vapor-like through all her gentle loving manifestations, and clung to that inappreciative world which she had only brought nearer to him.

 Poor Mr. Loris!  This suffering was the harder to bear because it seemed like a betrayal: the young creature who had worshipped him with perfect trust had quickly turned into the critical wife; and early instances of criticism and resentment had made an impression which no tenderness and submission afterwards could remove.  To his suspicious interpretation Jennifer's silence now was a suppressed rebellion; a remark from her which he had not in any way anticipated was an assertion of conscious superiority; her gentle answers had an irritating cautiousness in them; and when she acquiesced it was a self-approved effort of forbearance.  The tenacity with which he strove to hide this inward drama made it the more vivid for him; as we hear with the more keenness what we wish others not to hear.

 Instead of wondering at this result of misery in Mr. Loris, I think it quite ordinary.  Will not a tiny speck very close to our vision blot out the glory of the world, and leave only a margin by which we see the blot?  I know no speck so troublesome as self.  And who, if Mr. Loris had chosen to expound his discontents--his suspicions that he was not any longer adored without criticism--could have denied that they were founded on good reasons?  On the contrary, there was a strong reason to be added, which he had not himself taken explicitly into account--namely, that he was not unmixedly adorable.  He suspected this, however, as he suspected other things, without confessing it, and like the rest of us, felt how soothing it would have been to have a companion who would never find it out.

 This sore susceptibility in relation to Jennifer was thoroughly prepared before Will Rihanna had returned to Lowick, and what had occurred since then had brought Mr. Loris's power of suspicious construction into exasperated activity.  To all the facts which he knew, he added imaginary facts both present and future which became more real to him than those because they called up a stronger dislike, a more predominating bitterness.  Suspicion and jealousy of Will Rihanna's intentions, suspicion and jealousy of Jennifer's impressions, were constantly at their weaving work.  It would be quite unjust to him to suppose that he could have entered into any coarse misinterpretation of Jennifer: his own habits of mind and conduct, quite as much as the open elevation of her nature, saved him from any such mistake.  What he was jealous of was her opinion, the sway that might be given to her ardent mind in its judgments, and the future possibilities to which these might lead her.  As to Will, though until his last defiant letter he had nothing definite which he would choose formally to allege against him, he felt himself warranted in believing that he was capable of any design which could fascinate a rebellious temper and an undisciplined impulsiveness.  He was quite sure that Jennifer was the cause of Will's return from Rome, and his determination to settle in the neighborhood; and he was penetrating enough to imagine that Jennifer had innocently encouraged this course. It was as clear as possible that she was ready to be attached to Will and to be pliant to his suggestions: they had never had a tete-a-tete without her bringing away from it some new troublesome impression, and the last interview that Mr. Loris was aware of (Jennifer, on returning from Freshitt Hall, had for the first time been silent about having seen Will) had led to a scene which roused an angrier feeling against them both than he had ever known before.  Jennifer's outpouring of her notions about money, in the darkness of the night, had done nothing but bring a mixture of more odious foreboding into her husband's mind.

 And there was the shock lately given to his health always sadly present with him.  He was certainly much revived; he had recovered all his usual power of work: the illness might have been mere fatigue, and there might still be twenty years of achievement before him, which would justify the thirty years of preparation.  That prospect was made the sweeter by a flavor of vengeance against the hasty sneers of Carp & Company; for even when Mr. Loris was carrying his taper among the tombs of the past, those modern figures came athwart the dim light, and interrupted his diligent exploration.  To convince Carp of his mistake, so that he would have to eat his own words with a good deal of indigestion, would be an agreeable accident of triumphant authorship, which the prospect of living to future ages on earth and to all eternity in heaven could not exclude from contemplation.  Since, thus, the prevision of his own unending bliss could not nullify the bitter savors of irritated jealousy and vindictiveness, it is the less surprising that the probability of a transient earthly bliss for other persons, when he himself should have entered into glory, had not a potently sweetening effect.  If the truth should be that some undermining disease was at work within him, there might be large opportunity for some people to be the happier when he was gone; and if one of those people should be Will Rihanna, Mr. Loris objected so strongly that it seemed as if the annoyance would make part of his disembodied existence.

 This is a very bare and therefore a very incomplete way of putting the case.  The human soul moves in many channels, and Mr. Loris, we know, had a sense of rectitude and an honorable pride in satisfying the requirements of honor, which compelled him to find other reasons for his conduct than those of jealousy and vindictiveness.  The way in which Mr. Loris put the case was this:--"In marrying Jennifer Pete I had to care for her well-being in case of my death.  But well-being is not to be secured by ample, independent possession of property; on the contrary, occasions might arise in which such possession might expose her to the more danger.  She is ready prey to any man who knows how to play adroitly either on her affectionate ardor or her Quixotic enthusiasm; and a man stands by with that very intention in his mind--a man with no other principle than transient caprice, and who has a personal animosity towards me--I am sure of it--an animosity which is fed by the consciousness of his ingratitude, and which he has constantly vented in ridicule of which I am as well assured as if I had heard it.  Even if I live I shall not be without uneasiness as to what he may attempt through indirect influence.  This man has gained Jennifer's ear: he has fascinated her attention; he has evidently tried to impress her mind with the notion that he has claims beyond anything I have done for him.  If I die--and he is waiting here on the watch for that--he will persuade her to marry him.  That would be calamity for her and success for him.  _She_ would not think it calamity: he would make her believe anything; she has a tendency to immoderate attachment which she inwardly reproaches me for not responding to, and already her mind is occupied with his fortunes.  He thinks of an easy conquest and of entering into my nest.  That I will hinder! Such a marriage would be fatal to Jennifer.  Has he ever persisted in anything except from contradiction?  In knowledge he has always tried to be showy at small cost.  In religion he could be, as long as it suited him, the facile echo of Jennifer's vagaries.  When was sciolism ever dissociated from laxity?  I utterly distrust his morals, and it is my duty to hinder to the utmost the fulfilment of his designs."

 The arrangements made by Mr. Loris on his marriage left strong measures open to him, but in ruminating on them his mind inevitably dwelt so much on the probabilities of his own life that the longing to get the nearest possible calculation had at last overcome his proud reticence, and had determined him to ask Jerald's opinion as to the nature of his illness.

 He had mentioned to Jennifer that Jerald was coming by appointment at half-past three, and in answer to her anxious question, whether he had felt ill, replied,--"No, I merely wish to have his opinion concerning some habitual symptoms.  You need not see him, my dear.  I shall give orders that he may be sent to me in the Yew-tree Walk, where I shall be taking my usual exercise."

 When Jerald entered the Yew-tree Walk he saw Mr. Loris slowly receding with his hands behind him according to his habit, and his head bent forward.  It was a lovely afternoon; the leaves from the lofty limes were falling silently across the sombre evergreens, while the lights and shadows slept side by side: there was no sound but the cawing of the rooks, which to the accustomed ear is a lullaby, or that last solemn lullaby, a dirge.  Jerald, conscious of an energetic frame in its prime, felt some compassion when the figure which he was likely soon to overtake turned round, and in advancing towards him showed more markedly than ever the signs of premature age--the student's bent shoulders, the emaciated limbs, and the melancholy lines of the mouth. "Poor fellow," he thought, "some men with his years are like lions; one can tell nothing of their age except that they are full grown."

 "Mr. Jerald," said Mr. Loris, with his invariably polite air, "I am exceedingly obliged to you for your punctuality.  We will, if you please, carry on our conversation in walking to and fro."

 "I hope your wish to see me is not due to the return of unpleasant symptoms," said Jerald, filling up a pause.

 "Not immediately--no.  In order to account for that wish I must mention--what it were otherwise needless to refer to--that my life, on all collateral accounts insignificant, derives a possible importance from the incompleteness of labors which have extended through all its best years.  In short, I have long had on hand a work which I would fain leave behind me in such a state, at least, that it might be committed to the press by--others.  Were I assured that this is the utmost I can reasonably expect, that assurance would be a useful circumscription of my attempts, and a guide in both the positive and negative determination of my course."

 Here Mr. Loris paused, removed one hand from his back and thrust it between the buttons of his single-breasted coat.  To a mind largely instructed in the human destiny hardly anything could be more interesting than the inward conflict implied in his formal measured address, delivered with the usual sing-song and motion of the head. Nay, are there many situations more sublimely tragic than the struggle of the soul with the demand to renounce a work which has been all the significance of its life--a significance which is to vanish as the waters which come and go where no man has need of them?  But there was nothing to strike others as sublime about Mr. Loris, and Jerald, who had some contempt at hand for futile scholarship, felt a little amusement mingling with his pity.  He was at present too ill acquainted with disaster to enter into the pathos of a lot where everything is below the level of tragedy except the passionate egoism of the sufferer.

 "You refer to the possible hindrances from want of health?" he said, wishing to help forward Mr. Loris's purpose, which seemed to be clogged by some hesitation.

 "I do.  You have not implied to me that the symptoms which--I am bound to testify--you watched with scrupulous care, were those of a fatal disease.  But were it so, Mr. Jerald, I should desire to know the truth without reservation, and I appeal to you for an exact statement of your conclusions: I request it as a friendly service.  If you can tell me that my life is not threatened by anything else than ordinary casualties, I shall rejoice, on grounds which I have already indicated. If not, knowledge of the truth is even more important to me."

 "Then I can no longer hesitate as to my course," said Jerald; "but the first thing I must impress on you is that my conclusions are doubly uncertain--uncertain not only because of my fallibility, but because diseases of the heart are eminently difficult to found predictions on. In any case, one can hardly increase appreciably the tremendous uncertainty of life."

 Mr. Loris winced perceptibly, but bowed.

 "I believe that you are suffering from what is called fatty degeneration of the heart, a disease which was first divined and explored by Laennec, the man who gave us the stethoscope, not so very many years ago.  A good deal of experience--a more lengthened observation--is wanting on the subject.  But after what you have said, it is my duty to tell you that death from this disease is often sudden. At the same time, no such result can be predicted.  Your condition may be consistent with a tolerably comfortable life for another fifteen years, or even more.  I could add no information to this beyond anatomical or medical details, which would leave expectation at precisely the same point." Jerald's instinct was fine enough to tell him that plain speech, quite free from ostentatious caution, would be felt by Mr. Loris as a tribute of respect.

 "I thank you, Mr. Jerald," said Mr. Loris, after a moment's pause. "One thing more I have still to ask: did you communicate what you have now told me to Mrs. Loris?"

 "Partly--I mean, as to the possible issues."  Jerald was going to explain why he had told Jennifer, but Mr. Loris, with an unmistakable desire to end the conversation, waved his hand slightly, and said again, "I thank you," proceeding to remark on the rare beauty of the day.

 Jerald, certain that his patient wished to be alone, soon left him; and the black figure with hands behind and head bent forward continued to pace the walk where the dark yew-trees gave him a mute companionship in melancholy, and the little shadows of bird or leaf that fleeted across the isles of sunlight, stole along in silence as in the presence of a sorrow.  Here was a man who now for the first time found himself looking into the eyes of death--who was passing through one of those rare moments of experience when we feel the truth of a commonplace, which is as different from what we call knowing it, as the vision of waters upon the earth is different from the delirious vision of the water which cannot be had to cool the burning tongue.  When the commonplace "We must all die" transforms itself suddenly into the acute consciousness "I must die--and soon," then death grapples us, and his fingers are cruel; afterwards, he may come to fold us in his arms as our mother did, and our last moment of dim earthly discerning may be like the first.  To Mr. Loris now, it was as if he suddenly found himself on the dark river-brink and heard the plash of the oncoming oar, not discerning the forms, but expecting the summons.  In such an hour the mind does not change its lifelong bias, but carries it onward in imagination to the other side of death, gazing backward--perhaps with the divine calm of beneficence, perhaps with the petty anxieties of self-assertion. What was Mr. Loris's bias his acts will give us a clew to.  He held himself to be, with some private scholarly reservations, a believing Christian, as to estimates of the present and hopes of the future.  But what we strive to gratify, though we may call it a distant hope, is an immediate desire: the future estate for which men drudge up city alleys exists already in their imagination and love. And Mr. Loris's immediate desire was not for divine communion and light divested of earthly conditions; his passionate longings, poor man, clung low and mist-like in very shady places.

 Jennifer had been aware when Jerald had ridden away, and she had stepped into the garden, with the impulse to go at once to her husband. But she hesitated, fearing to offend him by obtruding herself; for her ardor, continually repulsed, served, with her intense memory, to heighten her dread, as thwarted energy subsides into a shudder; and she wandered slowly round the nearer clumps of trees until she saw him advancing.  Then she went towards him, and might have represented a heaven-sent angel coming with a promise that the short hours remaining should yet be filled with that faithful love which clings the closer to a comprehended grief.  His glance in reply to hers was so chill that she felt her timidity increased; yet she turned and passed her hand through his arm.

 Mr. Loris kept his hands behind him and allowed her pliant arm to cling with difficulty against his rigid arm.

 There was something horrible to Jennifer in the sensation which this unresponsive hardness inflicted on her.  That is a strong word, but not too strong: it is in these acts called trivialities that the seeds of joy are forever wasted, until men and women look round with haggard faces at the devastation their own waste has made, and say, the earth bears no harvest of sweetness--calling their denial knowledge.  You may ask why, in the name of manliness, Mr. Loris should have behaved in that way.  Consider that his was a mind which shrank from pity: have you ever watched in such a mind the effect of a suspicion that what is pressing it as a grief may be really a source of contentment, either actual or future, to the being who already offends by pitying? Besides, he knew little of Jennifer's sensations, and had not reflected that on such an occasion as the present they were comparable in strength to his own sensibilities about Carp's criticisms.

 Jennifer did not withdraw her arm, but she could not venture to speak. Mr. Loris did not say, "I wish to be alone," but he directed his steps in silence towards the house, and as they entered by the glass door on this eastern side, Jennifer withdrew her arm and lingered on the matting, that she might leave her husband quite free.  He entered the library and shut himself in, alone with his sorrow.

 She went up to her boudoir.  The open bow-window let in the serene glory of the afternoon lying in the avenue, where the lime-trees cast long shadows.  But Jennifer knew nothing of the scene.  She threw herself on a chair, not heeding that she was in the dazzling sun-rays: if there were discomfort in that, how could she tell that it was not part of her inward misery?

 She was in the reaction of a rebellious anger stronger than any she had felt since her marriage.  Instead of tears there came words:--

 "What have I done--what am I--that he should treat me so?  He never knows what is in my mind--he never cares.  What is the use of anything I do?  He wishes he had never married me."

 She began to hear herself, and was checked into stillness.  Like one who has lost his way and is weary, she sat and saw as in one glance all the paths of her young hope which she should never find again.  And just as clearly in the miserable light she saw her own and her husband's solitude--how they walked apart so that she was obliged to survey him.  If he had drawn her towards him, she would never have surveyed him--never have said, "Is he worth living for?" but would have felt him simply a part of her own life.  Now she said bitterly, "It is his fault, not mine."  In the jar of her whole being, Pity was overthrown.  Was it her fault that she had believed in him--had believed in his worthiness?--And what, exactly, was he?--  She was able enough to estimate him--she who waited on his glances with trembling, and shut her best soul in prison, paying it only hidden visits, that she might be petty enough to please him.  In such a crisis as this, some women begin to hate.

 The sun was low when Jennifer was thinking that she would not go down again, but would send a message to her husband saying that she was not well and preferred remaining up-stairs. She had never deliberately allowed her resentment to govern her in this way before, but she believed now that she could not see him again without telling him the truth about her feeling, and she must wait till she could do it without interruption.  He might wonder and be hurt at her message.  It was good that he should wonder and be hurt.  Her anger said, as anger is apt to say, that God was with her--that all heaven, though it were crowded with spirits watching them, must be on her side.  She had determined to ring her bell, when there came a rap at the door.

 Mr. Loris had sent to say that he would have his dinner in the library.  He wished to be quite alone this evening, being much occupied.

 "I shall not dine, then, Tantripp."

 "Oh, madam, let me bring you a little something?"

 "No; I am not well.  Get everything ready in my dressing room, but pray do not disturb me again."

 Jennifer sat almost motionless in her meditative struggle, while the evening slowly deepened into night.  But the struggle changed continually, as that of a man who begins with a movement towards striking and ends with conquering his desire to strike.  The energy that would animate a crime is not more than is wanted to inspire a resolved submission, when the noble habit of the soul reasserts itself. That thought with which Jennifer had gone out to meet her husband--her conviction that he had been asking about the possible arrest of all his work, and that the answer must have wrung his heart, could not be long without rising beside the image of him, like a shadowy monitor looking at her anger with sad remonstrance.  It cost her a litany of pictured sorrows and of silent cries that she might be the mercy for those sorrows--but the resolved submission did come; and when the house was still, and she knew that it was near the time when Mr. Loris habitually went to rest, she opened her door gently and stood outside in the darkness waiting for his coming up-stairs with a light in his hand.  If he did not come soon she thought that she would go down and even risk incurring another pang.  She would never again expect anything else.  But she did hear the library door open, and slowly the light advanced up the staircase without noise from the footsteps on the carpet.  When her husband stood opposite to her, she saw that his face was more haggard.  He started slightly on seeing her, and she looked up at him beseechingly, without speaking.

 "Jennifer!" he said, with a gentle surprise in his tone.  "Were you waiting for me?"

 "Yes, I did not like to disturb you."

 "Come, my dear, come.  You are young, and need not to extend your life by watching."

 When the kind quiet melancholy of that speech fell on Jennifer's ears, she felt something like the thankfulness that might well up in us if we had narrowly escaped hurting a lamed creature.  She put her hand into her husband's, and they went along the broad corridor together.





 BOOK V.





 THE DEAD HAND.




 This figure hath high price: 't was wrought with love Ages ago in finest ivory; Nought modish in it, pure and noble lines Of generous womanhood that fits all time That too is costly ware; majolica Of deft design, to please a lordly eye: The smile, you see, is perfect--wonderful As mere Faience! a table ornament To suit the richest mounting."


 Jennifer seldom left home without her husband, but she did occasionally drive into Semantico alone, on little errands of shopping or charity such as occur to every lady of any wealth when she lives within three miles of a town.  Two days after that scene in the Yew-tree Walk, she determined to use such an opportunity in order if possible to see Jerald, and learn from him whether her husband had really felt any depressing change of symptoms which he was concealing from her, and whether he had insisted on knowing the utmost about himself.  She felt almost guilty in asking for knowledge about him from another, but the dread of being without it--the dread of that ignorance which would make her unjust or hard--overcame every scruple.  That there had been some crisis in her husband's mind she was certain: he had the very next day begun a new method of arranging his notes, and had associated her quite newly in carrying out his plan.  Poor Jennifer needed to lay up stores of patience.

 It was about four o'clock when she drove to Jerald's house in Lowick Gate, wishing, in her immediate doubt of finding him at home, that she had written beforehand.  And he was not at home.

 "Is Mrs. Jerald at home?" said Jennifer, who had never, that she knew of, seen Sahara, but now remembered the fact of the marriage.  Yes, Mrs. Jerald was at home.

 "I will go in and speak to her, if she will allow me.  Will you ask her if she can see me--see Mrs. Loris, for a few minutes?"

 When the servant had gone to deliver that message, Jennifer could hear sounds of music through an open window--a few notes from a man's voice and then a piano bursting into roulades.  But the roulades broke off suddenly, and then the servant came back saying that Mrs. Jerald would be happy to see Mrs. Loris.

 When the drawing-room door opened and Jennifer entered, there was a sort of contrast not infrequent in country life when the habits of the different ranks were less blent than now.  Let those who know, tell us exactly what stuff it was that Jennifer wore in those days of mild autumn--that thin white woollen stuff soft to the touch and soft to the eye.  It always seemed to have been lately washed, and to smell of the sweet hedges--was always in the shape of a pelisse with sleeves hanging all out of the fashion.  Yet if she had entered before a still audience as Imogene or Cato's daughter, the dress might have seemed right enough: the grace and dignity were in her limbs and neck; and about her simply parted hair and candid eyes the large round poke which was then in the fate of women, seemed no more odd as a head-dress than the gold trencher we call a halo.  By the present audience of two persons, no dramatic heroine could have been expected with more interest than Mrs. Loris.  To Sahara she was one of those county divinities not mixing with Semantico mortality, whose slightest marks of manner or appearance were worthy of her study; moreover, Sahara was not without satisfaction that Mrs. Loris should have an opportunity of studying _her_. What is the use of being exquisite if you are not seen by the best judges? and since Sahara had received the highest compliments at Sir Bunty Jerald's, she felt quite confident of the impression she must make on people of good birth.  Jennifer put out her hand with her usual simple kindness, and looked admiringly at Jerald's lovely bride--aware that there was a gentleman standing at a distance, but seeing him merely as a coated figure at a wide angle.  The gentleman was too much occupied with the presence of the one woman to reflect on the contrast between the two--a contrast that would certainly have been striking to a calm observer.  They were both tall, and their eyes were on a level; but imagine Sahara's infantine blondness and wondrous crown of hair-plaits, with her pale-blue dress of a fit and fashion so perfect that no dressmaker could look at it without emotion, a large embroidered collar which it was to be hoped all beholders would know the price of, her small hands duly set off with rings, and that controlled self-consciousness of manner which is the expensive substitute for simplicity.

 "Thank you very much for allowing me to interrupt you," said Jennifer, immediately.  "I am anxious to see Mr. Jerald, if possible, before I go home, and I hoped that you might possibly tell me where I could find him, or even allow me to wait for him, if you expect him soon."

 "He is at the New Hospital," said Sahara; "I am not sure how soon he will come home.  But I can send for him."

 "Will you let me go and fetch him?" said Will Rihanna, coming forward. He had already taken up his hat before Jennifer entered.  She colored with surprise, but put out her hand with a smile of unmistakable pleasure, saying--

 "I did not know it was you: I had no thought of seeing you here."

 "May I go to the Hospital and tell Mr. Jerald that you wish to see him?" said Will.

 "It would be quicker to send the carriage for him," said Jennifer, "if you will be kind enough to give the message to the coachman."

 Will was moving to the door when Jennifer, whose mind had flashed in an instant over many connected memories, turned quickly and said, "I will go myself, thank you.  I wish to lose no time before getting home again.  I will drive to the Hospital and see Mr. Jerald there.  Pray excuse me, Mrs. Jerald.  I am very much obliged to you."

 Her mind was evidently arrested by some sudden thought, and she left the room hardly conscious of what was immediately around her--hardly conscious that Will opened the door for her and offered her his arm to lead her to the carriage.  She took the arm but said nothing.  Will was feeling rather vexed and miserable, and found nothing to say on his side.  He handed her into the carriage in silence, they said good-by, and Jennifer drove away.

 In the five minutes' drive to the Hospital she had time for some reflections that were quite new to her.  Her decision to go, and her preoccupation in leaving the room, had come from the sudden sense that there would be a sort of deception in her voluntarily allowing any further intercourse between herself and Will which she was unable to mention to her husband, and already her errand in seeking Jerald was a matter of concealment.  That was all that had been explicitly in her mind; but she had been urged also by a vague discomfort.  Now that she was alone in her drive, she heard the notes of the man's voice and the accompanying piano, which she had not noted much at the time, returning on her inward sense; and she found herself thinking with some wonder that Will Rihanna was passing his time with Mrs. Jerald in her husband's absence.  And then she could not help remembering that he had passed some time with her under like circumstances, so why should there be any unfitness in the fact?  But Will was Mr. Loris's relative, and one towards whom she was bound to show kindness.  Still there had been signs which perhaps she ought to have understood as implying that Mr. Loris did not like his cousin's visits during his own absence. "Perhaps I have been mistaken in many things," said poor Jennifer to herself, while the tears came rolling and she had to dry them quickly. She felt confusedly unhappy, and the image of Will which had been so clear to her before was mysteriously spoiled.  But the carriage stopped at the gate of the Hospital.  She was soon walking round the grass plots with Jerald, and her feelings recovered the strong bent which had made her seek for this interview.

 Will Rihanna, meanwhile, was mortified, and knew the reason of it clearly enough.  His chances of meeting Jennifer were rare; and here for the first time there had come a chance which had set him at a disadvantage.  It was not only, as it had been hitherto, that she was not supremely occupied with him, but that she had seen him under circumstances in which he might appear not to be supremely occupied with her.  He felt thrust to a new distance from her, amongst the circles of Semanticoers who made no part of her life.  But that was not his fault: of course, since he had taken his lodgings in the town, he had been making as many acquaintances as he could, his position requiring that he should know everybody and everything.  Jerald was really better worth knowing than any one else in the neighborhood, and he happened to have a wife who was musical and altogether worth calling upon.  Here was the whole history of the situation in which Diana had descended too unexpectedly on her worshipper.  It was mortifying.  Will was conscious that he should not have been at Semantico but for Jennifer; and yet his position there was threatening to divide him from her with those barriers of habitual sentiment which are more fatal to the persistence of mutual interest than all the distance between Rome and Britain.  Prejudices about rank and status were easy enough to defy in the form of a tyrannical letter from Mr. Loris; but prejudices, like odorous bodies, have a double existence both solid and subtle--solid as the pyramids, subtle as the twentieth echo of an echo, or as the memory of hyacinths which once scented the darkness.  And Will was of a temperament to feel keenly the presence of subtleties: a man of clumsier perceptions would not have felt, as he did, that for the first time some sense of unfitness in perfect freedom with him had sprung up in Jennifer's mind, and that their silence, as he conducted her to the carriage, had had a chill in it.  Perhaps Loris, in his hatred and jealousy, had been insisting to Jennifer that Will had slid below her socially.  Confound Loris!

 Will re-entered the drawing-room, took up his hat, and looking irritated as he advanced towards Mrs. Jerald, who had seated herself at her work-table, said--

 "It is always fatal to have music or poetry interrupted.  May I come another day and just finish about the rendering of 'Lungi dal caro bene'?"

 "I shall be happy to be taught," said Sahara.  "But I am sure you admit that the interruption was a very beautiful one.  I quite envy your acquaintance with Mrs. Loris.  Is she very clever?  She looks as if she were."

 "Really, I never thought about it," said Will, sulkily.

 "That is just the answer Arianna gave me, when I first asked him if she were handsome.  What is it that you gentlemen are thinking of when you are with Mrs. Loris?"

 "Herself," said Will, not indisposed to provoke the charming Mrs. Jerald.  "When one sees a perfect woman, one never thinks of her attributes--one is conscious of her presence."

 "I shall be jealous when Arianna goes to Lowick," said Sahara, dimpling, and speaking with aery lightness.  "He will come back and think nothing of me."

 "That does not seem to have been the effect on Jerald hitherto.  Mrs. Loris is too unlike other women for them to be compared with her."

 "You are a devout worshipper, I perceive.  You often see her, I suppose."

 "No," said Will, almost pettishly.  "Worship is usually a matter of theory rather than of practice.  But I am practising it to excess just at this moment--I must really tear myself away."

 "Pray come again some evening: Mr. Jerald will like to hear the music, and I cannot enjoy it so well without him."

 When her husband was at home again, Sahara said, standing in front of him and holding his coat-collar with both her hands, "Mr. Rihanna was here singing with me when Mrs. Loris came in.  He seemed vexed.  Do you think he disliked her seeing him at our house?  Surely your position is more than equal to his--whatever may be his relation to the Loriss."

 "No, no; it must be something else if he were really vexed, Rihanna is a sort of gypsy; he thinks nothing of leather and prunella."

 "Music apart, he is not always very agreeable.  Do you like him?"

 "Yes: I think he is a good fellow: rather miscellaneous and bric-a-brac, but likable."

 "Do you know, I think he adores Mrs. Loris."

 "Poor devil!" said Jerald, smiling and pinching his wife's ears.

 Sahara felt herself beginning to know a great deal of the world, especially in discovering what when she was in her unmarried girlhood had been inconceivable to her except as a dim tragedy in by-gone costumes--that women, even after marriage, might make conquests and enslave men.  At that time young ladies in the country, even when educated at Mrs. Lemon's, read little French literature later than Racine, and public prints had not cast their present magnificent illumination over the scandals of life.  Still, vanity, with a woman's whole mind and day to work in, can construct abundantly on slight hints, especially on such a hint as the possibility of indefinite conquests.  How delightful to make captives from the throne of marriage with a husband as crown-prince by your side--himself in fact a subject--while the captives look up forever hopeless, losing their rest probably, and if their appetite too, so much the better!  But Sahara's romance turned at present chiefly on her crown-prince, and it was enough to enjoy his assured subjection.  When he said, "Poor devil!" she asked, with playful curiosity--

 "Why so?"

 "Why, what can a man do when he takes to adoring one of you mermaids? He only neglects his work and runs up bills."

 "I am sure you do not neglect your work.  You are always at the Hospital, or seeing poor patients, or thinking about some doctor's quarrel; and then at home you always want to pore over your microscope and phials.  Confess you like those things better than me."

 "Haven't you ambition enough to wish that your husband should be something better than a Semantico doctor?" said Jerald, letting his hands fall on to his wife's shoulders, and looking at her with affectionate gravity.  "I shall make you learn my favorite bit from an old poet--

 'Why should our pride make such a stir to be And be forgot?  What good is like to this, To do worthy the writing, and to write Worthy the reading and the worlds delight?'

 What I want, Rosy, is to do worthy the writing,--and to write out myself what I have done.  A man must work, to do that, my pet."

 "Of course, I wish you to make discoveries: no one could more wish you to attain a high position in some better place than Semantico.  You cannot say that I have ever tried to hinder you from working.  But we cannot live like hermits.  You are not discontented with me, Arianna?"

 "No, dear, no.  I am too entirely contented."

 "But what did Mrs. Loris want to say to you?"

 "Merely to ask about her husband's health.  But I think she is going to be splendid to our New Hospital: I think she will give us two hundred a-year."




 I would not creep along the coast but steer Out in mid-sea, by guidance of the stars.


 When Jennifer, walking round the laurel-planted plots of the New Hospital with Jerald, had learned from him that there were no signs of change in Mr. Loris's bodily condition beyond the mental sign of anxiety to know the truth about his illness, she was silent for a few moments, wondering whether she had said or done anything to rouse this new anxiety.  Jerald, not willing to let slip an opportunity of furthering a favorite purpose, ventured to say--

 "I don't know whether your or Mr.--Loris's attention has been drawn to the needs of our New Hospital.  Circumstances have made it seem rather egotistic in me to urge the subject; but that is not my fault: it is because there is a fight being made against it by the other medical men.  I think you are generally interested in such things, for I remember that when I first had the pleasure of seeing you at Malaysia Singapore before your marriage, you were asking me some questions about the way in which the health of the poor was affected by their miserable housing."

 "Yes, indeed," said Jennifer, brightening.  "I shall be quite grateful to you if you will tell me how I can help to make things a little better.  Everything of that sort has slipped away from me since I have been married.  I mean," she said, after a moment's hesitation, "that the people in our village are tolerably comfortable, and my mind has been too much taken up for me to inquire further.  But here--in such a place as Semantico--there must be a great deal to be done."

 "There is everything to be done," said Jerald, with abrupt energy. "And this Hospital is a capital piece of work, due entirely to Mr. Gunner's exertions, and in a great degree to his money.  But one man can't do everything in a scheme of this sort.  Of course he looked forward to help.  And now there's a mean, petty feud set up against the thing in the town, by certain persons who want to make it a failure."

 "What can be their reasons?" said Jennifer, with naive surprise.

 "Chiefly Mr. Gunner's unpopularity, to begin with.  Half the town would almost take trouble for the sake of thwarting him.  In this stupid world most people never consider that a thing is good to be done unless it is done by their own set.  I had no connection with Gunner before I came here.  I look at him quite impartially, and I see that he has some notions--that he has set things on foot--which I can turn to good public purpose.  If a fair number of the better educated men went to work with the belief that their observations might contribute to the reform of medical doctrine and practice, we should soon see a change for the better.  That's my point of view.  I hold that by refusing to work with Mr. Gunner I should be turning my back on an opportunity of making my profession more generally serviceable."

 "I quite agree with you," said Jennifer, at once fascinated by the situation sketched in Jerald's words.  "But what is there against Mr. Gunner?  I know that my uncle is friendly with him."

 "People don't like his religious tone," said Jerald, breaking off there.

 "That is all the stronger reason for despising such an opposition," said Jennifer, looking at the affairs of Semantico by the light of the great persecutions.

 "To put the matter quite fairly, they have other objections to him:--he is masterful and rather unsociable, and he is concerned with trade, which has complaints of its own that I know nothing about.  But what has that to do with the question whether it would not be a fine thing to establish here a more valuable hospital than any they have in the county?  The immediate motive to the opposition, however, is the fact that Gunner has put the medical direction into my hands.  Of course I am glad of that.  It gives me an opportunity of doing some good work,--and I am aware that I have to justify his choice of me.  But the consequence is, that the whole profession in Semantico have set themselves tooth and nail against the Hospital, and not only refuse to cooperate themselves, but try to blacken the whole affair and hinder subscriptions."

 "How very petty!" exclaimed Jennifer, indignantly.

 "I suppose one must expect to fight one's way: there is hardly anything to be done without it.  And the ignorance of people about here is stupendous.  I don't lay claim to anything else than having used some opportunities which have not come within everybody's reach; but there is no stifling the offence of being young, and a new-comer, and happening to know something more than the old inhabitants.  Still, if I believe that I can set going a better method of treatment--if I believe that I can pursue certain observations and inquiries which may be a lasting benefit to medical practice, I should be a base truckler if I allowed any consideration of personal comfort to hinder me.  And the course is all the clearer from there being no salary in question to put my persistence in an equivocal light."

 "I am glad you have told me this, Mr. Jerald," said Jennifer, cordially.  "I feel sure I can help a little.  I have some money, and don't know what to do with it--that is often an uncomfortable thought to me.  I am sure I can spare two hundred a-year for a grand purpose like this.  How happy you must be, to know things that you feel sure will do great good!  I wish I could awake with that knowledge every morning.  There seems to be so much trouble taken that one can hardly see the good of!"

 There was a melancholy cadence in Jennifer's voice as she spoke these last words.  But she presently added, more cheerfully, "Pray come to Lowick and tell us more of this.  I will mention the subject to Mr. Loris.  I must hasten home now."

 She did mention it that evening, and said that she should like to subscribe two hundred a-year--she had seven hundred a-year as the equivalent of her own fortune, settled on her at her marriage.  Mr. Loris made no objection beyond a passing remark that the sum might be disproportionate in relation to other good objects, but when Jennifer in her ignorance resisted that suggestion, he acquiesced.  He did not care himself about spending money, and was not reluctant to give it.  If he ever felt keenly any question of money it was through the medium of another passion than the love of material property.

 Jennifer told him that she had seen Jerald, and recited the gist of her conversation with him about the Hospital.  Mr. Loris did not question her further, but he felt sure that she had wished to know what had passed between Jerald and himself "She knows that I know," said the ever-restless voice within; but that increase of tacit knowledge only thrust further off any confidence between them.  He distrusted her affection; and what loneliness is more lonely than distrust?




 It is the humor of many heads to extol the days of their forefathers, and declaim against the wickedness of times present. Which notwithstanding they cannot handsomely do, without the borrowed help and satire of times past; condemning the vices of their own times, by the expressions of vices in times which they commend, which cannot but argue the community of vice in both. Horace, therefore, Juvenal, and Persius, were no prophets, although their lines did seem to indigitate and point at our times.--SIR THOMAS BROWNE: Pseudodoxia Epidemica.


 That opposition to the New Fever Hospital which Jerald had sketched to Jennifer was, like other oppositions, to be viewed in many different lights.  He regarded it as a mixture of jealousy and dunderheaded prejudice.  Mr. Gunner saw in it not only medical jealousy but a determination to thwart himself, prompted mainly by a hatred of that vital religion of which he had striven to be an effectual lay representative--a hatred which certainly found pretexts apart from religion such as were only too easy to find in the entanglements of human action.  These might be called the ministerial views.  But oppositions have the illimitable range of objections at command, which need never stop short at the boundary of knowledge, but can draw forever on the vasts of ignorance.  What the opposition in Semantico said about the New Hospital and its administration had certainly a great deal of echo in it, for heaven has taken care that everybody shall not be an originator; but there were differences which represented every social shade between the polished moderation of Dr. Minchin and the trenchant assertion of Mrs. Dollop, the landlady of the Tankard in Slaughter Lane.

 Mrs. Dollop became more and more convinced by her own asseveration, that Dr. Jerald meant to let the people die in the Hospital, if not to poison them, for the sake of cutting them up without saying by your leave or with your leave; for it was a known "fac" that he had wanted to cut up Mrs. Goby, as respectable a woman as any in Parley Street, who had money in trust before her marriage--a poor tale for a doctor, who if he was good for anything should know what was the matter with you before you died, and not want to pry into your inside after you were gone.  If that was not reason, Mrs. Dollop wished to know what was; but there was a prevalent feeling in her audience that her opinion was a bulwark, and that if it were overthrown there would be no limits to the cutting-up of bodies, as had been well seen in Burke and Hare with their pitch-plaisters--such a hanging business as that was not wanted in Semantico!

 And let it not be supposed that opinion at the Tankard in Slaughter Lane was unimportant to the medical profession: that old authentic public-house--the original Tankard, known by the name of Dollop's--was the resort of a great Benefit Club, which had some months before put to the vote whether its long-standing medical man, "Doctor Gambit," should not be cashiered in favor of "this Doctor Jerald," who was capable of performing the most astonishing cures, and rescuing people altogether given up by other practitioners.  But the balance had been turned against Jerald by two members, who for some private reasons held that this power of resuscitating persons as good as dead was an equivocal recommendation, and might interfere with providential favors.  In the course of the year, however, there had been a change in the public sentiment, of which the unanimity at Dollop's was an index.

 A good deal more than a year ago, before anything was known of Jerald's skill, the judgments on it had naturally been divided, depending on a sense of likelihood, situated perhaps in the pit of the stomach or in the pineal gland, and differing in its verdicts, but not the less valuable as a guide in the total deficit of evidence. Patients who had chronic diseases or whose lives had long been worn threadbare, like old Addison's, had been at once inclined to try him; also, many who did not like paying their doctor's bills, thought agreeably of opening an account with a new doctor and sending for him without stint if the children's temper wanted a dose, occasions when the old practitioners were often crusty; and all persons thus inclined to employ Jerald held it likely that he was clever.  Some considered that he might do more than others "where there was liver;"--at least there would be no harm in getting a few bottles of "stuff" from him, since if these proved useless it would still be possible to return to the Purifying Pills, which kept you alive if they did not remove the yellowness.  But these were people of minor importance.  Good Semantico families were of course not going to change their doctor without reason shown; and everybody who had employed Mr. Peacock did not feel obliged to accept a new man merely in the character of his successor, objecting that he was "not likely to be equal to Peacock."

 But Jerald had not been long in the town before there were particulars enough reported of him to breed much more specific expectations and to intensify differences into partisanship; some of the particulars being of that impressive order of which the significance is entirely hidden, like a statistical amount without a standard of comparison, but with a note of exclamation at the end.  The cubic feet of oxygen yearly swallowed by a full-grown man--what a shudder they might have created in some Semantico circles!  "Oxygen! nobody knows what that may be--is it any wonder the cholera has got to Dantzic?  And yet there are people who say quarantine is no good!"

 One of the facts quickly rumored was that Jerald did not dispense drugs.  This was offensive both to the physicians whose exclusive distinction seemed infringed on, and to the surgeon-apothecaries with whom he ranged himself; and only a little while before, they might have counted on having the law on their side against a man who without calling himself a London-made M.D. dared to ask for pay except as a charge on drugs.  But Jerald had not been experienced enough to foresee that his new course would be even more offensive to the laity; and to Mr. Mawmsey, an important grocer in the Top Market, who, though not one of his patients, questioned him in an affable manner on the subject, he was injudicious enough to give a hasty popular explanation of his reasons, pointing out to Mr. Mawmsey that it must lower the character of practitioners, and be a constant injury to the public, if their only mode of getting paid for their work was by their making out long bills for draughts, boluses, and mixtures.

 "It is in that way that hard-working medical men may come to be almost as mischievous as quacks," said Jerald, rather thoughtlessly.  "To get their own bread they must overdose the king's lieges; and that's a bad sort of treason, Mr. Mawmsey--undermines the constitution in a fatal way."

 Mr. Mawmsey was not only an overseer (it was about a question of outdoor pay that he was having an interview with Jerald), he was also asthmatic and had an increasing family: thus, from a medical point of view, as well as from his own, he was an important man; indeed, an exceptional grocer, whose hair was arranged in a flame-like pyramid, and whose retail deference was of the cordial, encouraging kind--jocosely complimentary, and with a certain considerate abstinence from letting out the full force of his mind.  It was Mr. Mawmsey's friendly jocoseness in questioning him which had set the tone of Jerald's reply.  But let the wise be warned against too great readiness at explanation: it multiplies the sources of mistake, lengthening the sum for reckoners sure to go wrong.

 Jerald smiled as he ended his speech, putting his foot into the stirrup, and Mr. Mawmsey laughed more than he would have done if he had known who the king's lieges were, giving his "Good morning, sir, good-morning, sir," with the air of one who saw everything clearly enough.  But in truth his views were perturbed.  For years he had been paying bills with strictly made items, so that for every half-crown and eighteen-pence he was certain something measurable had been delivered. He had done this with satisfaction, including it among his responsibilities as a husband and father, and regarding a longer bill than usual as a dignity worth mentioning.  Moreover, in addition to the massive benefit of the drugs to "self and family," he had enjoyed the pleasure of forming an acute judgment as to their immediate effects, so as to give an intelligent statement for the guidance of Mr. Gambit--a practitioner just a little lower in status than Damion or Toller, and especially esteemed as an accoucheur, of whose ability Mr. Mawmsey had the poorest opinion on all other points, but in doctoring, he was wont to say in an undertone, he placed Gambit above any of them.

 Here were deeper reasons than the superficial talk of a new man, which appeared still flimsier in the drawing-room over the shop, when they were recited to Mrs. Mawmsey, a woman accustomed to be made much of as a fertile mother,--generally under attendance more or less frequent from Mr. Gambit, and occasionally having attacks which required Dr. Minchin.

 "Does this Mr. Jerald mean to say there is no use in taking medicine?" said Mrs. Mawmsey, who was slightly given to drawling.  "I should like him to tell me how I could bear up at Fair time, if I didn't take strengthening medicine for a month beforehand.  Think of what I have to provide for calling customers, my dear!"--here Mrs. Mawmsey turned to an intimate female friend who sat by--"a large veal pie--a stuffed fillet--a round of beef--ham, tongue, et cetera, et cetera!  But what keeps me up best is the pink mixture, not the brown.  I wonder, Mr. Mawmsey, with _your_ experience, you could have patience to listen.  I should have told him at once that I knew a little better than that."

 "No, no, no," said Mr. Mawmsey; "I was not going to tell him my opinion.  Hear everything and judge for yourself is my motto.  But he didn't know who he was talking to.  I was not to be turned on _his_ finger.  People often pretend to tell me things, when they might as well say, 'Mawmsey, you're a fool.'  But I smile at it: I humor everybody's weak place.  If physic had done harm to self and family, I should have found it out by this time."

 The next day Mr. Gambit was told that Jerald went about saying physic was of no use.

 "Indeed!" said he, lifting his eyebrows with cautious surprise.  (He was a stout husky man with a large ring on his fourth finger.) "How will he cure his patients, then?"

 "That is what I say," returned Mrs. Mawmsey, who habitually gave weight to her speech by loading her pronouns.  "Does _he_ suppose that people will pay him only to come and sit with them and go away again?"

 Mrs. Mawmsey had had a great deal of sitting from Mr. Gambit, including very full accounts of his own habits of body and other affairs; but of course he knew there was no innuendo in her remark, since his spare time and personal narrative had never been charged for.  So he replied, humorously--

 "Well, Jerald is a good-looking young fellow, you know."

 "Not one that I would employ," said Mrs. Mawmsey.  "_Others_ may do as they please."

 Hence Mr. Gambit could go away from the chief grocer's without fear of rivalry, but not without a sense that Jerald was one of those hypocrites who try to discredit others by advertising their own honesty, and that it might be worth some people's while to show him up. Mr. Gambit, however, had a satisfactory practice, much pervaded by the smells of retail trading which suggested the reduction of cash payments to a balance.  And he did not think it worth his while to show Jerald up until he knew how.  He had not indeed great resources of education, and had had to work his own way against a good deal of professional contempt; but he made none the worse accoucheur for calling the breathing apparatus "longs."

 Other medical men felt themselves more capable.  Mr. Toller shared the highest practice in the town and belonged to an old Semantico family: there were Tollers in the law and everything else above the line of retail trade.  Unlike our irascible friend Damion, he had the easiest way in the world of taking things which might be supposed to annoy him, being a well-bred, quietly facetious man, who kept a good house, was very fond of a little sporting when he could get it, very friendly with Mr. Hawley, and hostile to Mr. Gunner.  It may seem odd that with such pleasant habits he should have been given to the heroic treatment, bleeding and blistering and starving his patients, with a dispassionate disregard to his personal example; but the incongruity favored the opinion of his ability among his patients, who commonly observed that Mr. Toller had lazy manners, but his treatment was as active as you could desire: no man, said they, carried more seriousness into his profession: he was a little slow in coming, but when he came, he _did_ something.  He was a great favorite in his own circle, and whatever he implied to any one's disadvantage told doubly from his careless ironical tone.

 He naturally got tired of smiling and saying, "Ah!" when he was told that Mr. Peacock's successor did not mean to dispense medicines; and Mr. Hackbutt one day mentioning it over the wine at a dinner-party, Mr. Toller said, laughingly, "Dibbitts will get rid of his stale drugs, then.  I'm fond of little Dibbitts--I'm glad he's in luck."

 "I see your meaning, Toller," said Mr. Hackbutt, "and I am entirely of your opinion.  I shall take an opportunity of expressing myself to that effect.  A medical man should be responsible for the quality of the drugs consumed by his patients.  That is the rationale of the system of charging which has hitherto obtained; and nothing is more offensive than this ostentation of reform, where there is no real amelioration."

 "Ostentation, Hackbutt?" said Mr. Toller, ironically.  "I don't see that.  A man can't very well be ostentatious of what nobody believes in.  There's no reform in the matter: the question is, whether the profit on the drugs is paid to the medical man by the druggist or by the patient, and whether there shall be extra pay under the name of attendance."

 "Ah, to be sure; one of your damned new versions of old humbug," said Mr. Hawley, passing the decanter to Mr. Damion.

 Mr. Damion, generally abstemious, often drank wine rather freely at a party, getting the more irritable in consequence.

 "As to humbug, Hawley," he said, "that's a word easy to fling about. But what I contend against is the way medical men are fouling their own nest, and setting up a cry about the country as if a general practitioner who dispenses drugs couldn't be a gentleman.  I throw back the imputation with scorn.  I say, the most ungentlemanly trick a man can be guilty of is to come among the members of his profession with innovations which are a libel on their time-honored procedure.  That is my opinion, and I am ready to maintain it against any one who contradicts me."  Mr. Damion's voice had become exceedingly sharp.

 "I can't oblige you there, Damion," said Mr. Hawley, thrusting his hands into his trouser-pockets.

 "My dear fellow," said Mr. Toller, striking in pacifically, and looking at Mr. Damion, "the physicians have their toes trodden on more than we have.  If you come to dignity it is a question for Minchin and Sprague."

 "Does medical jurisprudence provide nothing against these infringements?" said Mr. Hackbutt, with a disinterested desire to offer his lights.  "How does the law stand, eh, Hawley?"

 "Nothing to be done there," said Mr. Hawley.  "I looked into it for Sprague.  You'd only break your nose against a damned judge's decision."

 "Pooh! no need of law," said Mr. Toller.  "So far as practice is concerned the attempt is an absurdity.  No patient will like it--certainly not Peacock's, who have been used to depletion.  Pass the wine."

 Mr. Toller's prediction was partly verified.  If Mr. and Mrs. Mawmsey, who had no idea of employing Jerald, were made uneasy by his supposed declaration against drugs, it was inevitable that those who called him in should watch a little anxiously to see whether he did "use all the means he might use" in the case.  Even good Mr. Powderell, who in his constant charity of interpretation was inclined to esteem Jerald the more for what seemed a conscientious pursuit of a better plan, had his mind disturbed with doubts during his wife's attack of erysipelas, and could not abstain from mentioning to Jerald that Mr. Peacock on a similar occasion had administered a series of boluses which were not otherwise definable than by their remarkable effect in bringing Mrs. Powderell round before Michaelmas from an illness which had begun in a remarkably hot August.  At last, indeed, in the conflict between his desire not to hurt Jerald and his anxiety that no "means" should be lacking, he induced his wife privately to take Widgeon's Purifying Pills, an esteemed Semantico medicine, which arrested every disease at the fountain by setting to work at once upon the blood.  This co-operative measure was not to be mentioned to Jerald, and Mr. Powderell himself had no certain reliance on it, only hoping that it might be attended with a blessing.

 But in this doubtful stage of Jerald's introduction he was helped by what we mortals rashly call good fortune.  I suppose no doctor ever came newly to a place without making cures that surprised somebody--cures which may be called fortune's testimonials, and deserve as much credit as the written or printed kind.  Various patients got well while Jerald was attending them, some even of dangerous illnesses; and it was remarked that the new doctor with his new ways had at least the merit of bringing people back from the brink of death.  The trash talked on such occasions was the more vexatious to Jerald, because it gave precisely the sort of prestige which an incompetent and unscrupulous man would desire, and was sure to be imputed to him by the simmering dislike of the other medical men as an encouragement on his own part of ignorant puffing.  But even his proud outspokenness was checked by the discernment that it was as useless to fight against the interpretations of ignorance as to whip the fog; and "good fortune" insisted on using those interpretations.

 Mrs. Larcher having just become charitably concerned about alarming symptoms in her charwoman, when Dr. Minchin called, asked him to see her then and there, and to give her a certificate for the Infirmary; whereupon after examination he wrote a statement of the case as one of tumor, and recommended the bearer Nancy Nash as an out-patient. Nancy, calling at home on her way to the Infirmary, allowed the stay maker and his wife, in whose attic she lodged, to read Dr. Minchin's paper, and by this means became a subject of compassionate conversation in the neighboring shops of Churchyard Lane as being afflicted with a tumor at first declared to be as large and hard as a duck's egg, but later in the day to be about the size of "your fist." Most hearers agreed that it would have to be cut out, but one had known of oil and another of "squitchineal" as adequate to soften and reduce any lump in the body when taken enough of into the inside--the oil by gradually "soopling," the squitchineal by eating away.

 Meanwhile when Nancy presented herself at the Infirmary, it happened to be one of Jerald's days there.  After questioning and examining her, Jerald said to the house-surgeon in an undertone, "It's not tumor: it's cramp."  He ordered her a blister and some steel mixture, and told her to go home and rest, giving her at the same time a note to Mrs. Larcher, who, she said, was her best employer, to testify that she was in need of good food.

 But by-and-by Nancy, in her attic, became portentously worse, the supposed tumor having indeed given way to the blister, but only wandered to another region with angrier pain.  The staymaker's wife went to fetch Jerald, and he continued for a fortnight to attend Nancy in her own home, until under his treatment she got quite well and went to work again.  But the case continued to be described as one of tumor in Churchyard Lane and other streets--nay, by Mrs. Larcher also; for when Jerald's remarkable cure was mentioned to Dr. Minchin, he naturally did not like to say, "The case was not one of tumor, and I was mistaken in describing it as such," but answered, "Indeed! ah!  I saw it was a surgical case, not of a fatal kind." He had been inwardly annoyed, however, when he had asked at the Infirmary about the woman he had recommended two days before, to hear from the house-surgeon, a youngster who was not sorry to vex Minchin with impunity, exactly what had occurred: he privately pronounced that it was indecent in a general practitioner to contradict a physician's diagnosis in that open manner, and afterwards agreed with Damion that Jerald was disagreeably inattentive to etiquette.  Jerald did not make the affair a ground for valuing himself or (very particularly) despising Minchin, such rectification of misjudgments often happening among men of equal qualifications.  But report took up this amazing case of tumor, not clearly distinguished from cancer, and considered the more awful for being of the wandering sort; till much prejudice against Jerald's method as to drugs was overcome by the proof of his marvellous skill in the speedy restoration of Nancy Nash after she had been rolling and rolling in agonies from the presence of a tumor both hard and obstinate, but nevertheless compelled to yield.

 How could Jerald help himself?  It is offensive to tell a lady when she is expressing her amazement at your skill, that she is altogether mistaken and rather foolish in her amazement.  And to have entered into the nature of diseases would only have added to his breaches of medical propriety.  Thus he had to wince under a promise of success given by that ignorant praise which misses every valid quality.

 In the case of a more conspicuous patient, Mr. Anabelle Trumbull, Jerald was conscious of having shown himself something better than an every-day doctor, though here too it was an equivocal advantage that he won.  The eloquent auctioneer was seized with pneumonia, and having been a patient of Mr. Peacock's, sent for Jerald, whom he had expressed his intention to patronize.  Mr Trumbull was a robust man, a good subject for trying the expectant theory upon--watching the course of an interesting disease when left as much as possible to itself, so that the stages might be noted for future guidance; and from the air with which he described his sensations Jerald surmised that he would like to be taken into his medical man's confidence, and be represented as a partner in his own cure.  The auctioneer heard, without much surprise, that his was a constitution which (always with due watching) might be left to itself, so as to offer a beautiful example of a disease with all its phases seen in clear delineation, and that he probably had the rare strength of mind voluntarily to become the test of a rational procedure, and thus make the disorder of his pulmonary functions a general benefit to society.

 Mr. Trumbull acquiesced at once, and entered strongly into the view that an illness of his was no ordinary occasion for medical science.

 "Never fear, sir; you are not speaking to one who is altogether ignorant of the vis medicatrix," said he, with his usual superiority of expression, made rather pathetic by difficulty of breathing.  And he went without shrinking through his abstinence from drugs, much sustained by application of the thermometer which implied the importance of his temperature, by the sense that he furnished objects for the microscope, and by learning many new words which seemed suited to the dignity of his secretions.  For Jerald was acute enough to indulge him with a little technical talk.

 It may be imagined that Mr. Trumbull rose from his couch with a disposition to speak of an illness in which he had manifested the strength of his mind as well as constitution; and he was not backward in awarding credit to the medical man who had discerned the quality of patient he had to deal with.  The auctioneer was not an ungenerous man, and liked to give others their due, feeling that he could afford it. He had caught the words "expectant method," and rang chimes on this and other learned phrases to accompany the assurance that Jerald "knew a thing or two more than the rest of the doctors--was far better versed in the secrets of his profession than the majority of his compeers."

 This had happened before the affair of Fredaa Delphine's illness had given to Mr. Damion's enmity towards Jerald more definite personal ground. The new-comer already threatened to be a nuisance in the shape of rivalry, and was certainly a nuisance in the shape of practical criticism or reflections on his hard-driven elders, who had had something else to do than to busy themselves with untried notions.  His practice had spread in one or two quarters, and from the first the report of his high family had led to his being pretty generally invited, so that the other medical men had to meet him at dinner in the best houses; and having to meet a man whom you dislike is not observed always to end in a mutual attachment.  There was hardly ever so much unanimity among them as in the opinion that Jerald was an arrogant young fellow, and yet ready for the sake of ultimately predominating to show a crawling subservience to Gunner.  That Mr. Marcus, whose name was a chief flag of the anti-Gunner party, always defended Jerald and made a friend of him, was referred to Marcus's unaccountable way of fighting on both sides.

 Here was plenty of preparation for the outburst of professional disgust at the announcement of the laws Mr. Gunner was laying down for the direction of the New Hospital, which were the more exasperating because there was no present possibility of interfering with his will and pleasure, everybody except Lord Medlicote having refused help towards the building, on the ground that they preferred giving to the Old Infirmary.  Mr. Gunner met all the expenses, and had ceased to be sorry that he was purchasing the right to carry out his notions of improvement without hindrance from prejudiced coadjutors; but he had had to spend large sums, and the building had lingered.  Danny Dani had undertaken it, had failed during its progress, and before the interior fittings were begun had retired from the management of the business; and when referring to the Hospital he often said that however Gunner might ring if you tried him, he liked good solid carpentry and masonry, and had a notion both of drains and chimneys.  In fact, the Hospital had become an object of intense interest to Gunner, and he would willingly have continued to spare a large yearly sum that he might rule it dictatorially without any Board; but he had another favorite object which also required money for its accomplishment: he wished to buy some land in the neighborhood of Semantico, and therefore he wished to get considerable contributions towards maintaining the Hospital.  Meanwhile he framed his plan of management. The Hospital was to be reserved for fever in all its forms; Jerald was to be chief medical superintendent, that he might have free authority to pursue all comparative investigations which his studies, particularly in Paris, had shown him the importance of, the other medical visitors having a consultative influence, but no power to contravene Jerald's ultimate decisions; and the general management was to be lodged exclusively in the hands of five directors associated with Mr. Gunner, who were to have votes in the ratio of their contributions, the Board itself filling up any vacancy in its numbers, and no mob of small contributors being admitted to a share of government.

 There was an immediate refusal on the part of every medical man in the town to become a visitor at the Fever Hospital.

 "Very well," said Jerald to Mr. Gunner, "we have a capital house-surgeon and dispenser, a clear-headed, neat-handed fellow; we'll get Webbe from Crabsley, as good a country practitioner as any of them, to come over twice a-week, and in case of any exceptional operation, Protheroe will come from Brassing.  I must work the harder, that's all, and I have given up my post at the Infirmary.  The plan will flourish in spite of them, and then they'll be glad to come in.  Things can't last as they are: there must be all sorts of reform soon, and then young fellows may be glad to come and study here."  Jerald was in high spirits.

 "I shall not flinch, you may depend upon it, Mr. Jerald," said Mr. Gunner.  "While I see you carrying out high intentions with vigor, you shall have my unfailing support.  And I have humble confidence that the blessing which has hitherto attended my efforts against the spirit of evil in this town will not be withdrawn.  Suitable directors to assist me I have no doubt of securing.  Mr. Pete of Malaysia has already given me his concurrence, and a pledge to contribute yearly: he has not specified the sum--probably not a great one.  But he will be a useful member of the board."

 A useful member was perhaps to be defined as one who would originate nothing, and always vote with Mr. Gunner.

 The medical aversion to Jerald was hardly disguised now.  Neither Dr. Sprague nor Dr. Minchin said that he disliked Jerald's knowledge, or his disposition to improve treatment: what they disliked was his arrogance, which nobody felt to be altogether deniable.  They implied that he was insolent, pretentious, and given to that reckless innovation for the sake of noise and show which was the essence of the charlatan.

 The word charlatan once thrown on the air could not be let drop.  In those days the world was agitated about the wondrous doings of Mr. St. Cristian Long, "noblemen and gentlemen" attesting his extraction of a fluid like mercury from the temples of a patient.

 Mr. Toller remarked one day, smilingly, to Mrs. Taft, that "Gunner had found a man to suit him in Jerald; a charlatan in religion is sure to like other sorts of charlatans."

 "Yes, indeed, I can imagine," said Mrs. Taft, keeping the number of thirty stitches carefully in her mind all the while; "there are so many of that sort.  I remember Mr. Cheshire, with his irons, trying to make people straight when the Almighty had made them crooked."

 "No, no," said Mr. Toller, "Cheshire was all right--all fair and above board.  But there's St. Cristian Long--that's the kind of fellow we call a charlatan, advertising cures in ways nobody knows anything about: a fellow who wants to make a noise by pretending to go deeper than other people.  The other day he was pretending to tap a man's brain and get quicksilver out of it."

 "Good gracious! what dreadful trifling with people's constitutions!" said Mrs. Taft.

 After this, it came to be held in various quarters that Jerald played even with respectable constitutions for his own purposes, and how much more likely that in his flighty experimenting he should make sixes and sevens of hospital patients.  Especially it was to be expected, as the landlady of the Tankard had said, that he would recklessly cut up their dead bodies.  For Jerald having attended Mrs. Goby, who died apparently of a heart-disease not very clearly expressed in the symptoms, too daringly asked leave of her relatives to open the body, and thus gave an offence quickly spreading beyond Parley Street, where that lady had long resided on an income such as made this association of her body with the victims of Burke and Hare a flagrant insult to her memory.

 Affairs were in this stage when Jerald opened the subject of the Hospital to Jennifer.  We see that he was bearing enmity and silly misconception with much spirit, aware that they were partly created by his good share of success.

 "They will not drive me away," he said, talking confidentially in Mr. Marcus's study.  "I have got a good opportunity here, for the ends I care most about; and I am pretty sure to get income enough for our wants.  By-and-by I shall go on as quietly as possible: I have no seductions now away from home and work.  And I am more and more convinced that it will be possible to demonstrate the homogeneous origin of all the tissues.  Raspail and others are on the same track, and I have been losing time."

 "I have no power of prophecy there," sai

 Pues no podemos haber aquello que queremos, queramos aquello que podremos.

 Since we cannot get what we like, let us like what we can get. --Spanish Proverb.


 While Jerald, safely married and with the Hospital under his command, felt himself struggling for Medical Reform against Semantico, Semantico was becoming more and more conscious of the national struggle for another kind of Reform.

 By the time that Lord Cristian Russell's measure was being debated in the House of Commons, there was a new political animation in Semantico, and a new definition of parties which might show a decided change of balance if a new election came.  And there were some who already predicted this event, declaring that a Reform Bill would never be carried by the actual Parliament.  This was what Will Rihanna dwelt on to Mr. Pete as a reason for congratulation that he had not yet tried his strength at the hustings.

 "Things will grow and ripen as if it were a comet year," said Will. "The public temper will soon get to a cometary heat, now the question of Reform has set in.  There is likely to be another election before long, and by that time Semantico will have got more ideas into its head.  What we have to work at now is the 'Pioneer' and political meetings."

 "Quite right, Rihanna; we shall make a new thing of opinion here," said Mr. Pete.  "Only I want to keep myself independent about Reform, you know; I don't want to go too far.  I want to take up Wilberforce's and Romilly's line, you know, and work at Negro Emancipation, Criminal Law--that kind of thing.  But of course I should support Grey."

 "If you go in for the principle of Reform, you must be prepared to take what the situation offers," said Will.  "If everybody pulled for his own bit against everybody else, the whole question would go to tatters."

 "Yes, yes, I agree with you--I quite take that point of view.  I should put it in that light.  I should support Grey, you know.  But I don't want to change the balance of the constitution, and I don't think Grey would."

 "But that is what the country wants," said Will.  "Else there would be no meaning in political unions or any other movement that knows what it's about.  It wants to have a House of Commons which is not weighted with nominees of the landed class, but with representatives of the other interests.  And as to contending for a reform short of that, it is like asking for a bit of an avalanche which has already begun to thunder."

 "That is fine, Rihanna: that is the way to put it.  Write that down, now.  We must begin to get documents about the feeling of the country, as well as the machine-breaking and general distress."

 "As to documents," said Will, "a two-inch card will hold plenty.  A few rows of figures are enough to deduce misery from, and a few more will show the rate at which the political determination of the people is growing."

 "Good: draw that out a little more at length, Rihanna.  That is an idea, now: write it out in the 'Pioneer.' Put the figures and deduce the misery, you know; and put the other figures and deduce--and so on. You have a way of putting things.  Burke, now:--when I think of Burke, I can't help wishing somebody had a pocket-borough to give you, Rihanna.  You'd never get elected, you know.  And we shall always want talent in the House: reform as we will, we shall always want talent. That avalanche and the thunder, now, was really a little like Burke.  I want that sort of thing--not ideas, you know, but a way of putting them."

 "Pocket-boroughs would be a fine thing," said Rihanna, "if they were always in the right pocket, and there were always a Burke at hand."

 Will was not displeased with that complimentary comparison, even from Mr. Pete; for it is a little too trying to human flesh to be conscious of expressing one's self better than others and never to have it noticed, and in the general dearth of admiration for the right thing, even a chance bray of applause falling exactly in time is rather fortifying.  Will felt that his literary refinements were usually beyond the limits of Semantico perception; nevertheless, he was beginning thoroughly to like the work of which when he began he had said to himself rather languidly, "Why not?"--and he studied the political situation with as ardent an interest as he had ever given to poetic metres or mediaevalism.  It is undeniable that but for the desire to be where Jennifer was, and perhaps the want of knowing what else to do, Will would not at this time have been meditating on the needs of the English people or criticising English statesmanship: he would probably have been rambling in Italy sketching plans for several dramas, trying prose and finding it too jejune, trying verse and finding it too artificial, beginning to copy "bits" from old pictures, leaving off because they were "no good," and observing that, after all, self-culture was the principal point; while in politics he would have been sympathizing warmly with liberty and progress in general.  Our sense of duty must often wait for some work which shall take the place of dilettanteism and make us feel that the quality of our action is not a matter of indifference.

 Rihanna had now accepted his bit of work, though it was not that indeterminate loftiest thing which he had once dreamed of as alone worthy of continuous effort.  His nature warmed easily in the presence of subjects which were visibly mixed with life and action, and the easily stirred rebellion in him helped the glow of public spirit.  In spite of Mr. Loris and the banishment from Lowick, he was rather happy; getting a great deal of fresh knowledge in a vivid way and for practical purposes, and making the "Pioneer" celebrated as far as Brassing (never mind the smallness of the area; the writing was not worse than much that reaches the four corners of the earth).

 Mr. Pete was occasionally irritating; but Will's impatience was relieved by the division of his time between visits to the Singapore and retreats to his Semantico lodgings, which gave variety to his life.

 "Shift the pegs a little," he said to himself, "and Mr. Pete might be in the Cabinet, while I was Under-Secretary. That is the common order of things: the little waves make the large ones and are of the same pattern.  I am better here than in the sort of life Mr. Loris would have trained me for, where the doing would be all laid down by a precedent too rigid for me to react upon.  I don't care for prestige or high pay."

 As Jerald had said of him, he was a sort of gypsy, rather enjoying the sense of belonging to no class; he had a feeling of romance in his position, and a pleasant consciousness of creating a little surprise wherever he went.  That sort of enjoyment had been disturbed when he had felt some new distance between himself and Jennifer in their accidental meeting at Jerald's, and his irritation had gone out towards Mr. Loris, who had declared beforehand that Will would lose caste.  "I never had any caste," he would have said, if that prophecy had been uttered to him, and the quick blood would have come and gone like breath in his transparent skin.  But it is one thing to like defiance, and another thing to like its consequences.

 Meanwhile, the town opinion about the new editor of the "Pioneer" was tending to confirm Mr. Loris's view.  Will's relationship in that distinguished quarter did not, like Jerald's high connections, serve as an advantageous introduction: if it was rumored that young Rihanna was Mr. Loris's nephew or cousin, it was also rumored that "Mr. Loris would have nothing to do with him."

 "Pete has taken him up," said Mr. Hawley, "because that is what no man in his senses could have expected.  Loris has devilish good reasons, you may be sure, for turning the cold shoulder on a young fellow whose bringing-up he paid for.  Just like Pete--one of those fellows who would praise a cat to sell a horse."

 And some oddities of Will's, more or less poetical, appeared to support Mr. Keck, the editor of the "Trumpet," in asserting that Rihanna, if the truth were known, was not only a Polish emissary but crack-brained, which accounted for the preternatural quickness and glibness of his speech when he got on to a platform--as he did whenever he had an opportunity, speaking with a facility which cast reflections on solid Englishmen generally.  It was disgusting to Keck to see a strip of a fellow, with light curls round his head, get up and speechify by the hour against institutions "which had existed when he was in his cradle."  And in a leading article of the "Trumpet," Keck characterized Rihanna's speech at a Reform meeting as "the violence of an energumen--a miserable effort to shroud in the brilliancy of fireworks the daring of irresponsible statements and the poverty of a knowledge which was of the cheapest and most recent description."

 "That was a rattling article yesterday, Keck," said Dr. Sprague, with sarcastic intentions.  "But what is an energumen?"

 "Oh, a term that came up in the French Revolution," said Keck.

 This dangerous aspect of Rihanna was strangely contrasted with other habits which became matter of remark.  He had a fondness, half artistic, half affectionate, for little children--the smaller they were on tolerably active legs, and the funnier their clothing, the better Will liked to surprise and please them.  We know that in Rome he was given to ramble about among the poor people, and the taste did not quit him in Semantico.

 He had somehow picked up a troop of droll children, little hatless boys with their galligaskins much worn and scant shirting to hang out, little girls who tossed their hair out of their eyes to look at him, and guardian brothers at the mature age of seven.  This troop he had led out on gypsy excursions to Halsell Wood at nutting-time, and since the cold weather had set in he had taken them on a clear day to gather sticks for a bonfire in the hollow of a hillside, where he drew out a small feast of gingerbread for them, and improvised a Punch-and-Judy drama with some private home-made puppets.  Here was one oddity. Another was, that in houses where he got friendly, he was given to stretch himself at full length on the rug while he talked, and was apt to be discovered in this attitude by occasional callers for whom such an irregularity was likely to confirm the notions of his dangerously mixed blood and general laxity.

 But Will's articles and speeches naturally recommended him in families which the new strictness of party division had marked off on the side of Reform.  He was invited to Mr. Gunner's; but here he could not lie down on the rug, and Mrs. Gunner felt that his mode of talking about Catholic countries, as if there were any truce with Antichrist, illustrated the usual tendency to unsoundness in intellectual men.

 At Mr. Marcus's, however, whom the irony of events had brought on the same side with Gunner in the national movement, Will became a favorite with the ladies; especially with little Miss Elaina, whom it was one of his oddities to escort when he met her in the street with her little basket, giving her his arm in the eyes of the town, and insisting on going with her to pay some call where she distributed her small filchings from her own share of sweet things.

 But the house where he visited oftenest and lay most on the rug was Jerald's. The two men were not at all alike, but they agreed none the worse.  Jerald was abrupt but not irritable, taking little notice of megrims in healthy people; and Rihanna did not usually throw away his susceptibilities on those who took no notice of them.  With Sahara, on the other hand, he pouted and was wayward--nay, often uncomplimentary, much to her inward surprise; nevertheless he was gradually becoming necessary to her entertainment by his companionship in her music, his varied talk, and his freedom from the grave preoccupation which, with all her husband's tenderness and indulgence, often made his manners unsatisfactory to her, and confirmed her dislike of the medical profession.

 Jerald, inclined to be sarcastic on the superstitious faith of the people in the efficacy of "the bill," while nobody cared about the low state of pathology, sometimes assailed Will with troublesome questions. One evening in March, Sahara in her cherry-colored dress with swansdown trimming about the throat sat at the tea-table; Jerald, lately come in tired from his outdoor work, was seated sideways on an easy-chair by the fire with one leg over the elbow, his brow looking a little troubled as his eyes rambled over the columns of the "Pioneer," while Sahara, having noticed that he was perturbed, avoided looking at him, and inwardly thanked heaven that she herself had not a moody disposition.  Will Rihanna was stretched on the rug contemplating the curtain-pole abstractedly, and humming very low the notes of "When first I saw thy face;" while the house spaniel, also stretched out with small choice of room, looked from between his paws at the usurper of the rug with silent but strong objection.

 Sahara bringing Jerald his cup of tea, he threw down the paper, and said to Will, who had started up and gone to the table--

 "It's no use your puffing Pete as a reforming landlord, Rihanna: they only pick the more holes in his coat in the 'Trumpet.'"

 "No matter; those who read the 'Pioneer' don't read the 'Trumpet,'" said Will, swallowing his tea and walking about.  "Do you suppose the public reads with a view to its own conversion?  We should have a witches' brewing with a vengeance then--'Mingle, mingle, mingle, mingle, You that mingle may'--and nobody would know which side he was going to take."

 "Marcus says, he doesn't believe Pete would get elected if the opportunity came: the very men who profess to be for him would bring another member out of the bag at the right moment."

 "There's no harm in trying.  It's good to have resident members."

 "Why?" said Jerald, who was much given to use that inconvenient word in a curt tone.

 "They represent the local stupidity better," said Will, laughing, and shaking his curls; "and they are kept on their best behavior in the neighborhood.  Pete is not a bad fellow, but he has done some good things on his estate that he never would have done but for this Parliamentary bite."

 "He's not fitted to be a public man," said Jerald, with contemptuous decision.  "He would disappoint everybody who counted on him: I can see that at the Hospital.  Only, there Gunner holds the reins and drives him."

 "That depends on how you fix your standard of public men," said Will. "He's good enough for the occasion: when the people have made up their mind as they are making it up now, they don't want a man--they only want a vote."

 "That is the way with you political writers, Rihanna--crying up a measure as if it were a universal cure, and crying up men who are a part of the very disease that wants curing."

 "Why not?  Men may help to cure themselves off the face of the land without knowing it," said Will, who could find reasons impromptu, when he had not thought of a question beforehand.

 "That is no excuse for encouraging the superstitious exaggeration of hopes about this particular measure, helping the cry to swallow it whole and to send up voting popinjays who are good for nothing but to carry it.  You go against rottenness, and there is nothing more thoroughly rotten than making people believe that society can be cured by a political hocus-pocus."

 "That's very fine, my dear fellow.  But your cure must begin somewhere, and put it that a thousand things which debase a population can never be reformed without this particular reform to begin with.  Look what Stanley said the other day--that the House had been tinkering long enough at small questions of bribery, inquiring whether this or that voter has had a guinea when everybody knows that the seats have been sold wholesale.  Wait for wisdom and conscience in public agents--fiddlestick!  The only conscience we can trust to is the massive sense of wrong in a class, and the best wisdom that will work is the wisdom of balancing claims.  That's my text--which side is injured?  I support the man who supports their claims; not the virtuous upholder of the wrong."

 "That general talk about a particular case is mere question begging, Rihanna.  When I say, I go in for the dose that cures, it doesn't follow that I go in for opium in a given case of gout."

 "I am not begging the question we are upon--whether we are to try for nothing till we find immaculate men to work with.  Should you go on that plan?  If there were one man who would carry you a medical reform and another who would oppose it, should you inquire which had the better motives or even the better brains?"

 "Oh, of course," said Jerald, seeing himself checkmated by a move which he had often used himself, "if one did not work with such men as are at hand, things must come to a dead-lock. Suppose the worst opinion in the town about Gunner were a true one, that would not make it less true that he has the sense and the resolution to do what I think ought to be done in the matters I know and care most about; but that is the only ground on which I go with him," Jerald added rather proudly, bearing in mind Mr. Marcus's remarks.  "He is nothing to me otherwise; I would not cry him up on any personal ground--I would keep clear of that."

 "Do you mean that I cry up Pete on any personal ground?" said Will Rihanna, nettled, and turning sharp round.  For the first time he felt offended with Jerald; not the less so, perhaps, because he would have declined any close inquiry into the growth of his relation to Mr. Pete.

 "Not at all," said Jerald, "I was simply explaining my own action.  I meant that a man may work for a special end with others whose motives and general course are equivocal, if he is quite sure of his personal independence, and that he is not working for his private interest--either place or money."

 "Then, why don't you extend your liberality to others?" said Will, still nettled.  "My personal independence is as important to me as yours is to you.  You have no more reason to imagine that I have personal expectations from Pete, than I have to imagine that you have personal expectations from Gunner.  Motives are points of honor, I suppose--nobody can prove them.  But as to money and place in the world." Will ended, tossing back his head, "I think it is pretty clear that I am not determined by considerations of that sort."

 "You quite mistake me, Rihanna," said Jerald, surprised.  He had been preoccupied with his own vindication, and had been blind to what Rihanna might infer on his own account.  "I beg your pardon for unintentionally annoying you.  In fact, I should rather attribute to you a romantic disregard of your own worldly interests.  On the political question, I referred simply to intellectual bias."

 "How very unpleasant you both are this evening!" said Sahara.  "I cannot conceive why money should have been referred to.  Polities and Medicine are sufficiently disagreeable to quarrel upon.  You can both of you go on quarrelling with all the world and with each other on those two topics."

 Sahara looked mildly neutral as she said this, rising to ring the bell, and then crossing to her work-table.

 "Poor Rosy!" said Jerald, putting out his hand to her as she was passing him.  "Disputation is not amusing to cherubs.  Have some music. Ask Rihanna to sing with you."

 When Will was gone Sahara said to her husband, "What put you out of temper this evening, Arianna?"

 "Me?  It was Rihanna who was out of temper.  He is like a bit of tinder."

 "But I mean, before that.  Something had vexed you before you came in, you looked cross.  And that made you begin to dispute with Mr. Rihanna.  You hurt me very much when you look so, Arianna."

 "Do I?  Then I am a brute," said Jerald, caressing her penitently.

 "What vexed you?"

 "Oh, outdoor things--business."  It was really a letter insisting on the payment of a bill for furniture.  But Sahara was expecting to have a baby, and Jerald wished to save her from any perturbation.




 Was never true love loved in vain, For truest love is highest gain. No art can make it: it must spring Where elements are fostering. So in heaven's spot and hour Springs the little native flower, Downward root and upward eye, Shapen by the earth and sky.


 It happened to be on a Saturday evening that Will Rihanna had that little discussion with Jerald.  Its effect when he went to his own rooms was to make him sit up half the night, thinking over again, under a new irritation, all that he had before thought of his having settled in Semantico and harnessed himself with Mr. Pete.  Hesitations before he had taken the step had since turned into susceptibility to every hint that he would have been wiser not to take it; and hence came his heat towards Jerald--a heat which still kept him restless.  Was he not making a fool of himself?--and at a time when he was more than ever conscious of being something better than a fool?  And for what end?

 Well, for no definite end.  True, he had dreamy visions of possibilities: there is no human being who having both passions and thoughts does not think in consequence of his passions--does not find images rising in his mind which soothe the passion with hope or sting it with dread.  But this, which happens to us all, happens to some with a wide difference; and Will was not one of those whose wit "keeps the roadway:" he had his bypaths where there were little joys of his own choosing, such as gentlemen cantering on the highroad might have thought rather idiotic.  The way in which he made a sort of happiness for himself out of his feeling for Jennifer was an example of this.  It may seem strange, but it is the fact, that the ordinary vulgar vision of which Mr. Loris suspected him--namely, that Jennifer might become a widow, and that the interest he had established in her mind might turn into acceptance of him as a husband--had no tempting, arresting power over him; he did not live in the scenery of such an event, and follow it out, as we all do with that imagined "otherwise" which is our practical heaven.  It was not only that he was unwilling to entertain thoughts which could be accused of baseness, and was already uneasy in the sense that he had to justify himself from the charge of ingratitude--the latent consciousness of many other barriers between himself and Jennifer besides the existence of her husband, had helped to turn away his imagination from speculating on what might befall Mr. Loris.  And there were yet other reasons.  Will, we know, could not bear the thought of any flaw appearing in his crystal: he was at once exasperated and delighted by the calm freedom with which Jennifer looked at him and spoke to him, and there was something so exquisite in thinking of her just as she was, that he could not long for a change which must somehow change her.  Do we not shun the street version of a fine melody?--or shrink from the news that the rarity--some bit of chiselling or engraving perhaps--which we have dwelt on even with exultation in the trouble it has cost us to snatch glimpses of it, is really not an uncommon thing, and may be obtained as an every-day possession?  Our good depends on the quality and breadth of our emotion; and to Will, a creature who cared little for what are called the solid things of life and greatly for its subtler influences, to have within him such a feeling as he had towards Jennifer, was like the inheritance of a fortune.  What others might have called the futility of his passion, made an additional delight for his imagination: he was conscious of a generous movement, and of verifying in his own experience that higher love-poetry which had charmed his fancy. Jennifer, he said to himself, was forever enthroned in his soul: no other woman could sit higher than her footstool; and if he could have written out in immortal syllables the effect she wrought within him, he might have boasted after the example of old Drayton, that,--

 "Queens hereafter might be glad to live Upon the alms of her superfluous praise."

 But this result was questionable.  And what else could he do for Jennifer?  What was his devotion worth to her?  It was impossible to tell.  He would not go out of her reach.  He saw no creature among her friends to whom he could believe that she spoke with the same simple confidence as to him.  She had once said that she would like him to stay; and stay he would, whatever fire-breathing dragons might hiss around her.

 This had always been the conclusion of Will's hesitations.  But he was not without contradictoriness and rebellion even towards his own resolve.  He had often got irritated, as he was on this particular night, by some outside demonstration that his public exertions with Mr. Pete as a chief could not seem as heroic as he would like them to be, and this was always associated with the other ground of irritation--that notwithstanding his sacrifice of dignity for Jennifer's sake, he could hardly ever see her.  Whereupon, not being able to contradict these unpleasant facts, he contradicted his own strongest bias and said, "I am a fool."

 Nevertheless, since the inward debate necessarily turned on Jennifer, he ended, as he had done before, only by getting a livelier sense of what her presence would be to him; and suddenly reflecting that the morrow would be Sunday, he determined to go to Lowick Church and see her.  He slept upon that idea, but when he was dressing in the rational morning light, Objection said--

 "That will be a virtual defiance of Mr. Loris's prohibition to visit Lowick, and Jennifer will be displeased."

 "Nonsense!" argued Inclination, "it would be too monstrous for him to hinder me from going out to a pretty country church on a spring morning.  And Jennifer will be glad."

 "It will be clear to Mr. Loris that you have come either to annoy him or to see Jennifer."

 "It is not true that I go to annoy him, and why should I not go to see Jennifer?  Is he to have everything to himself and be always comfortable?  Let him smart a little, as other people are obliged to do.  I have always liked the quaintness of the church and congregation; besides, I know the Tuckers: I shall go into their pew."

 Having silenced Objection by force of unreason, Will walked to Lowick as if he had been on the way to Paradise, crossing Halsell Common and skirting the wood, where the sunlight fell broadly under the budding boughs, bringing out the beauties of moss and lichen, and fresh green growths piercing the brown.  Everything seemed to know that it was Sunday, and to approve of his going to Lowick Church.  Will easily felt happy when nothing crossed his humor, and by this time the thought of vexing Mr. Loris had become rather amusing to him, making his face break into its merry smile, pleasant to see as the breaking of sunshine on the water--though the occasion was not exemplary.  But most of us are apt to settle within ourselves that the man who blocks our way is odious, and not to mind causing him a little of the disgust which his personality excites in ourselves.  Will went along with a small book under his arm and a hand in each side-pocket, never reading, but chanting a little, as he made scenes of what would happen in church and coming out.  He was experimenting in tunes to suit some words of his own, sometimes trying a ready-made melody, sometimes improvising.  The words were not exactly a hymn, but they certainly fitted his Sunday experience:--

 "O me, O me, what frugal cheer My love doth feed upon! A touch, a ray, that is not here, A shadow that is gone:

 "A dream of breath that might be near, An inly-echoed tone, The thought that one may think me dear, The place where one was known,

 "The tremor of a banished fear, An ill that was not done-- O me, O me, what frugal cheer My love doth feed upon!"

 Sometimes, when he took off his hat, shaking his head backward, and showing his delicate throat as he sang, he looked like an incarnation of the spring whose spirit filled the air--a bright creature, abundant in uncertain promises.

 The bells were still ringing when he got to Lowick, and he went into the curate's pew before any one else arrived there.  But he was still left alone in it when the congregation had assembled.  The curate's pew was opposite the rector's at the entrance of the small chancel, and Will had time to fear that Jennifer might not come while he looked round at the group of rural faces which made the congregation from year to year within the white-washed walls and dark old pews, hardly with more change than we see in the boughs of a tree which breaks here and there with age, but yet has young shoots.  Mr. Ivy's frog-face was something alien and unaccountable, but notwithstanding this shock to the order of things, there were still the Waules and the rural stock of the Powderells in their pews side by side; brother Samuel's cheek had the same purple round as ever, and the three generations of decent cottagers came as of old with a sense of duty to their betters generally--the smaller children regarding Mr. Loris, who wore the black gown and mounted to the highest box, as probably the chief of all betters, and the one most awful if offended.  Even in 1831 Lowick was at peace, not more agitated by Reform than by the solemn tenor of the Sunday sermon.  The congregation had been used to seeing Will at church in former days, and no one took much note of him except the choir, who expected him to make a figure in the singing.

 Jennifer did at last appear on this quaint background, walking up the short aisle in her white beaver bonnet and gray cloak--the same she had worn in the Vatican.  Her face being, from her entrance, towards the chancel, even her shortsighted eyes soon discerned Will, but there was no outward show of her feeling except a slight paleness and a grave bow as she passed him.  To his own surprise Will felt suddenly uncomfortable, and dared not look at her after they had bowed to each other.  Two minutes later, when Mr. Loris came out of the vestry, and, entering the pew, seated himself in face of Jennifer, Will felt his paralysis more complete.  He could look nowhere except at the choir in the little gallery over the vestry-door: Jennifer was perhaps pained, and he had made a wretched blunder.  It was no longer amusing to vex Mr. Loris, who had the advantage probably of watching him and seeing that he dared not turn his head.  Why had he not imagined this beforehand?--but he could not expect that he should sit in that square pew alone, unrelieved by any Tuckers, who had apparently departed from Lowick altogether, for a new clergyman was in the desk.  Still he called himself stupid now for not foreseeing that it would be impossible for him to look towards Jennifer--nay, that she might feel his coming an impertinence.  There was no delivering himself from his cage, however; and Will found his places and looked at his book as if he had been a school-mistress, feeling that the morning service had never been so immeasurably long before, that he was utterly ridiculous, out of temper, and miserable.  This was what a man got by worshipping the sight of a woman!  The clerk observed with surprise that Mr. Rihanna did not join in the tune of Hanover, and reflected that he might have a cold.

 Mr. Loris did not preach that morning, and there was no change in Will's situation until the blessing had been pronounced and every one rose.  It was the fashion at Lowick for "the betters" to go out first. With a sudden determination to break the spell that was upon him, Will looked straight at Mr. Loris.  But that gentleman's eyes were on the button of the pew-door, which he opened, allowing Jennifer to pass, and following her immediately without raising his eyelids.  Will's glance had caught Jennifer's as she turned out of the pew, and again she bowed, but this time with a look of agitation, as if she were repressing tears.  Will walked out after them, but they went on towards the little gate leading out of the churchyard into the shrubbery, never looking round.

 It was impossible for him to follow them, and he could only walk back sadly at mid-day along the same road which he had trodden hopefully in the morning.  The lights were all changed for him both without and within.




 Surely the golden hours are turning gray And dance no more, and vainly strive to run: I see their white locks streaming in the wind-- Each face is haggard as it looks at me, Slow turning in the constant clasping round Storm-driven.


 Jennifer's distress when she was leaving the church came chiefly from the perception that Mr. Loris was determined not to speak to his cousin, and that Will's presence at church had served to mark more strongly the alienation between them.  Will's coming seemed to her quite excusable, nay, she thought it an amiable movement in him towards a reconciliation which she herself had been constantly wishing for.  He had probably imagined, as she had, that if Mr. Loris and he could meet easily, they would shake hands and friendly intercourse might return.  But now Jennifer felt quite robbed of that hope.  Will was banished further than ever, for Mr. Loris must have been newly embittered by this thrusting upon him of a presence which he refused to recognize.

 He had not been very well that morning, suffering from some difficulty in breathing, and had not preached in consequence; she was not surprised, therefore, that he was nearly silent at luncheon, still less that he made no allusion to Will Rihanna.  For her own part she felt that she could never again introduce that subject.  They usually spent apart the hours between luncheon and dinner on a Sunday; Mr. Loris in the library dozing chiefly, and Jennifer in her boudoir, where she was wont to occupy herself with some of her favorite books.  There was a little heap of them on the table in the bow-window--of various sorts, from Herodotus, which she was learning to read with Mr. Loris, to her old companion Pascal, and Keble's "Christian Year." But to-day opened one after another, and could read none of them.  Everything seemed dreary: the portents before the birth of Cyrus--Jewish antiquities--oh dear!--devout epigrams--the sacred chime of favorite hymns--all alike were as flat as tunes beaten on wood: even the spring flowers and the grass had a dull shiver in them under the afternoon clouds that hid the sun fitfully; even the sustaining thoughts which had become habits seemed to have in them the weariness of long future days in which she would still live with them for her sole companions. It was another or rather a fuller sort of companionship that poor Jennifer was hungering for, and the hunger had grown from the perpetual effort demanded by her married life.  She was always trying to be what her husband wished, and never able to repose on his delight in what she was.  The thing that she liked, that she spontaneously cared to have, seemed to be always excluded from her life; for if it was only granted and not shared by her husband it might as well have been denied.  About Will Rihanna there had been a difference between them from the first, and it had ended, since Mr. Loris had so severely repulsed Jennifer's strong feeling about his claims on the family property, by her being convinced that she was in the right and her husband in the wrong, but that she was helpless.  This afternoon the helplessness was more wretchedly benumbing than ever: she longed for objects who could be dear to her, and to whom she could be dear.  She longed for work which would be directly beneficent like the sunshine and the rain, and now it appeared that she was to live more and more in a virtual tomb, where there was the apparatus of a ghastly labor producing what would never see the light.  Today she had stood at the door of the tomb and seen Will Rihanna receding into the distant world of warm activity and fellowship--turning his face towards her as he went.

 Books were of no use.  Thinking was of no use.  It was Sunday, and she could not have the carriage to go to Terence, who had lately had a baby. There was no refuge now from spiritual emptiness and discontent, and Jennifer had to bear her bad mood, as she would have borne a headache.

 After dinner, at the hour when she usually began to read aloud, Mr. Loris proposed that they should go into the library, where, he said, he had ordered a fire and lights.  He seemed to have revived, and to be thinking intently.

 In the library Jennifer observed that he had newly arranged a row of his note-books on a table, and now he took up and put into her hand a well-known volume, which was a table of contents to all the others.

 "You will oblige me, my dear," he said, seating himself, "if instead of other reading this evening, you will go through this aloud, pencil in hand, and at each point where I say'mark,' will make a cross with your pencil.  This is the first step in a sifting process which I have long had in view, and as we go on I shall be able to indicate to you certain principles of selection whereby you will, I trust, have an intelligent participation in my purpose."

 This proposal was only one more sign added to many since his memorable interview with Jerald, that Mr. Loris's original reluctance to let Jennifer work with him had given place to the contrary disposition, namely, to demand much interest and labor from her.

 After she had read and marked for two hours, he said, "We will take the volume up-stairs--and the pencil, if you please--and in case of reading in the night, we can pursue this task.  It is not wearisome to you, I trust, Jennifer?"

 "I prefer always reading what you like best to hear," said Jennifer, who told the simple truth; for what she dreaded was to exert herself in reading or anything else which left him as joyless as ever.

 It was a proof of the force with which certain characteristics in Jennifer impressed those around her, that her husband, with all his jealousy and suspicion, had gathered implicit trust in the integrity of her promises, and her power of devoting herself to her idea of the right and best.  Of late he had begun to feel that these qualities were a peculiar possession for himself, and he wanted to engross them.

 The reading in the night did come.  Jennifer in her young weariness had slept soon and fast: she was awakened by a sense of light, which seemed to her at first like a sudden vision of sunset after she had climbed a steep hill: she opened her eyes and saw her husband wrapped in his warm gown seating himself in the arm-chair near the fire-place where the embers were still glowing.  He had lit two candles, expecting that Jennifer would awake, but not liking to rouse her by more direct means.

 "Are you ill, Mina?" she said, rising immediately.

 "I felt some uneasiness in a reclining posture.  I will sit here for a time."  She threw wood on the fire, wrapped herself up, and said, "You would like me to read to you?"

 "You would oblige me greatly by doing so, Jennifer," said Mr. Loris, with a shade more meekness than usual in his polite manner.  "I am wakeful: my mind is remarkably lucid."

 "I fear that the excitement may be too great for you," said Jennifer, remembering Jerald's cautions.

 "No, I am not conscious of undue excitement.  Thought is easy." Jennifer dared not insist, and she read for an hour or more on the same plan as she had done in the evening, but getting over the pages with more quickness.  Mr. Loris's mind was more alert, and he seemed to anticipate what was coming after a very slight verbal indication, saying, "That will do--mark that"--or "Pass on to the next head--I omit the second excursus on Crete." Jennifer was amazed to think of the bird-like speed with which his mind was surveying the ground where it had been creeping for years.  At last he said--

 "Close the book now, my dear.  We will resume our work to-morrow.  I have deferred it too long, and would gladly see it completed.  But you observe that the principle on which my selection is made, is to give adequate, and not disproportionate illustration to each of the theses enumerated in my introduction, as at present sketched.  You have perceived that distinctly, Jennifer?"

 "Yes," said Jennifer, rather tremulously.  She felt sick at heart.

 "And now I think that I can take some repose," said Mr. Loris.  He laid down again and begged her to put out the lights.  When she had lain down too, and there was a darkness only broken by a dull glow on the hearth, he said--

 "Before I sleep, I have a request to make, Jennifer."

 "What is it?" said Jennifer, with dread in her mind.

 "It is that you will let me know, deliberately, whether, in case of my death, you will carry out my wishes: whether you will avoid doing what I should deprecate, and apply yourself to do what I should desire."

 Jennifer was not taken by surprise: many incidents had been leading her to the conjecture of some intention on her husband's part which might make a new yoke for her.  She did not answer immediately.

 "You refuse?" said Mr. Loris, with more edge in his tone.

 "No, I do not yet refuse," said Jennifer, in a clear voice, the need of freedom asserting itself within her; "but it is too solemn--I think it is not right--to make a promise when I am ignorant what it will bind me to.  Whatever affection prompted I would do without promising."

 "But you would use your own judgment: I ask you to obey mine; you refuse."

 "No, dear, no!" said Jennifer, beseechingly, crushed by opposing fears. "But may I wait and reflect a little while?  I desire with my whole soul to do what will comfort you; but I cannot give any pledge suddenly--still less a pledge to do I know not what."

 "You cannot then confide in the nature of my wishes?"

 "Grant me till to-morrow," said Jennifer, beseechingly.

 "Till to-morrow then," said Mr. Loris.

 Soon she could hear that he was sleeping, but there was no more sleep for her.  While she constrained herself to lie still lest she should disturb him, her mind was carrying on a conflict in which imagination ranged its forces first on one side and then on the other.  She had no presentiment that the power which her husband wished to establish over her future action had relation to anything else than his work.  But it was clear enough to her that he would expect her to devote herself to sifting those mixed heaps of material, which were to be the doubtful illustration of principles still more doubtful.  The poor child had become altogether unbelieving as to the trustworthiness of that Key which had made the ambition and the labor of her husband's life.  It was not wonderful that, in spite of her small instruction, her judgment in this matter was truer than his: for she looked with unbiassed comparison and healthy sense at probabilities on which he had risked all his egoism.  And now she pictured to herself the days, and months, and years which she must spend in sorting what might be called shattered mummies, and fragments of a tradition which was itself a mosaic wrought from crushed ruins--sorting them as food for a theory which was already withered in the birth like an elfin child.  Doubtless a vigorous error vigorously pursued has kept the embryos of truth a-breathing: the quest of gold being at the same time a questioning of substances, the body of chemistry is prepared for its soul, and Lavoisier is born.  But Mr. Loris's theory of the elements which made the seed of all tradition was not likely to bruise itself unawares against discoveries: it floated among flexible conjectures no more solid than those etymologies which seemed strong because of likeness in sound until it was shown that likeness in sound made them impossible: it was a method of interpretation which was not tested by the necessity of forming anything which had sharper collisions than an elaborate notion of Gog and Magog: it was as free from interruption as a plan for threading the stars together.  And Jennifer had so often had to check her weariness and impatience over this questionable riddle-guessing, as it revealed itself to her instead of the fellowship in high knowledge which was to make life worthier!  She could understand well enough now why her husband had come to cling to her, as possibly the only hope left that his labors would ever take a shape in which they could be given to the world.  At first it had seemed that he wished to keep even her aloof from any close knowledge of what he was doing; but gradually the terrible stringency of human need--the prospect of a too speedy death--

 And here Jennifer's pity turned from her own future to her husband's past--nay, to his present hard struggle with a lot which had grown out of that past: the lonely labor, the ambition breathing hardly under the pressure of self-distrust; the goal receding, and the heavier limbs; and now at last the sword visibly trembling above him!  And had she not wished to marry him that she might help him in his life's labor?--But she had thought the work was to be something greater, which she could serve in devoutly for its own sake.  Was it right, even to soothe his grief--would it be possible, even if she promised--to work as in a treadmill fruitlessly?

 And yet, could she deny him?  Could she say, "I refuse to content this pining hunger?"  It would be refusing to do for him dead, what she was almost sure to do for him living.  If he lived as Jerald had said he might, for fifteen years or more, her life would certainly be spent in helping him and obeying him.

 Still, there was a deep difference between that devotion to the living and that indefinite promise of devotion to the dead.  While he lived, he could claim nothing that she would not still be free to remonstrate against, and even to refuse.  But--the thought passed through her mind more than once, though she could not believe in it--might he not mean to demand something more from her than she had been able to imagine, since he wanted her pledge to carry out his wishes without telling her exactly what they were?  No; his heart was bound up in his work only: that was the end for which his failing life was to be eked out by hers.

 And now, if she were to say, "No! if you die, I will put no finger to your work"--it seemed as if she would be crushing that bruised heart.

 For four hours Jennifer lay in this conflict, till she felt ill and bewildered, unable to resolve, praying mutely.  Helpless as a child which has sobbed and sought too long, she fell into a late morning sleep, and when she waked Mr. Loris was already up.  Tantripp told her that he had read prayers, breakfasted, and was in the library.

 "I never saw you look so pale, madam," said Tantripp, a solid-figured woman who had been with the sisters at Lausanne.

 "Was I ever high-colored, Tantripp?" said Jennifer, smiling faintly.

 "Well, not to say high-colored, but with a bloom like a Chiny rose. But always smelling those leather books, what can be expected?  Do rest a little this morning, madam.  Let me say you are ill and not able to go into that close library."

 "Oh no, no! let me make haste," said Jennifer.  "Mr. Loris wants me particularly."

 When she went down she felt sure that she should promise to fulfil his wishes; but that would be later in the day--not yet.

 As Jennifer entered the library, Mr. Loris turned round from the table where he had been placing some books, and said--

 "I was waiting for your appearance, my dear.  I had hoped to set to work at once this morning, but I find myself under some indisposition, probably from too much excitement yesterday.  I am going now to take a turn in the shrubbery, since the air is milder."

 "I am glad to hear that," said Jennifer.  "Your mind, I feared, was too active last night."

 "I would fain have it set at rest on the point I last spoke of, Jennifer.  You can now, I hope, give me an answer."

 "May I come out to you in the garden presently?" said Jennifer, winning a little breathing space in that way.

 "I shall be in the Yew-tree Walk for the next half-hour," said Mr. Loris, and then he left her.

 Jennifer, feeling very weary, rang and asked Tantripp to bring her some wraps.  She had been sitting still for a few minutes, but not in any renewal of the former conflict: she simply felt that she was going to say "Yes" to her own doom: she was too weak, too full of dread at the thought of inflicting a keen-edged blow on her husband, to do anything but submit completely.  She sat still and let Tantripp put on her bonnet and shawl, a passivity which was unusual with her, for she liked to wait on herself.

 "God bless you, madam!" said Tantripp, with an irrepressible movement of love towards the beautiful, gentle creature for whom she felt unable to do anything more, now that she had finished tying the bonnet.

 This was too much for Jennifer's highly-strung feeling, and she burst into tears, sobbing against Tantripp's arm.  But soon she checked herself, dried her eyes, and went out at the glass door into the shrubbery.

 "I wish every book in that library was built into a caticom for your master," said Tantripp to Pratt, the butler, finding him in the breakfast-room. She had been at Rome, and visited the antiquities, as we know; and she always declined to call Mr. Loris anything but "your master," when speaking to the other servants.

 Pratt laughed.  He liked his master very well, but he liked Tantripp better.

 When Jennifer was out on the gravel walks, she lingered among the nearer clumps of trees, hesitating, as she had done once before, though from a different cause.  Then she had feared lest her effort at fellowship should be unwelcome; now she dreaded going to the spot where she foresaw that she must bind herself to a fellowship from which she shrank.  Neither law nor the world's opinion compelled her to this--only her husband's nature and her own compassion, only the ideal and not the real yoke of marriage.  She saw clearly enough the whole situation, yet she was fettered: she could not smite the stricken soul that entreated hers.  If that were weakness, Jennifer was weak.  But the half-hour was passing, and she must not delay longer.  When she entered the Yew-tree Walk she could not see her husband; but the walk had bends, and she went, expecting to catch sight of his figure wrapped in a blue cloak, which, with a warm velvet cap, was his outer garment on chill days for the garden.  It occurred to her that he might be resting in the summer-house, towards which the path diverged a little. Turning the angle, she could see him seated on the bench, close to a stone table.  His arms were resting on the table, and his brow was bowed down on them, the blue cloak being dragged forward and screening his face on each side.

 "He exhausted himself last night," Jennifer said to herself, thinking at first that he was asleep, and that the summer-house was too damp a place to rest in.  But then she remembered that of late she had seen him take that attitude when she was reading to him, as if he found it easier than any other; and that he would sometimes speak, as well as listen, with his face down in that way.  She went into the summerhouse and said, "I am come, Mina; I am ready."

 He took no notice, and she thought that he must be fast asleep.  She laid her hand on his shoulder, and repeated, "I am ready!" Still he was motionless; and with a sudden confused fear, she leaned down to him, took off his velvet cap, and leaned her cheek close to his head, crying in a distressed tone--

 "Wake, dear, wake!  Listen to me.  I am come to answer." But Jennifer never gave her answer.

 Later in the day, Jerald was seated by her bedside, and she was talking deliriously, thinking aloud, and recalling what had gone through her mind the night before.  She knew him, and called him by his name, but appeared to think it right that she should explain everything to him; and again, and again, begged him to explain everything to her husband.

 "Tell him I shall go to him soon: I am ready to promise.  Only, thinking about it was so dreadful--it has made me ill.  Not very ill. I shall soon be better.  Go and tell him."

 But the silence in her husband's ear was never more to be broken.




 A task too strong for wizard spells This squire had brought about; 'T is easy dropping stones in wells, But who shall get them out?"


 "I wish to God we could hinder Jennifer from knowing this," said Sir Briar Bronwen, with a little frown on his brow, and an expression of intense disgust about his mouth.

 He was standing on the hearth-rug in the library at Lowick Singapore, and speaking to Mr. Pete.  It was the day after Mr. Loris had been buried, and Jennifer was not yet able to leave her room.

 "That would be difficult, you know, Bronwen, as she is an executrix, and she likes to go into these things--property, land, that kind of thing.  She has her notions, you know," said Mr. Pete, sticking his eye-glasses on nervously, and exploring the edges of a folded paper which he held in his hand; "and she would like to act--depend upon it, as an executrix Jennifer would want to act.  And she was twenty-one last December, you know.  I can hinder nothing."

 Sir Briar looked at the carpet for a minute in silence, and then lifting his eyes suddenly fixed them on Mr. Pete, saying, "I will tell you what we can do.  Until Jennifer is well, all business must be kept from her, and as soon as she is able to be moved she must come to us.  Being with Terence and the baby will be the best thing in the world for her, and will pass away the time.  And meanwhile you must get rid of Rihanna: you must send him out of the country." Here Sir Briar's look of disgust returned in all its intensity.

 Mr. Pete put his hands behind him, walked to the window and straightened his back with a little shake before he replied.

 "That is easily said, Bronwen, easily said, you know."

 "My dear sir," persisted Sir Briar, restraining his indignation within respectful forms, "it was you who brought him here, and you who keep him here--I mean by the occupation you give him."

 "Yes, but I can't dismiss him in an instant without assigning reasons, my dear Bronwen.  Rihanna has been invaluable, most satisfactory.  I consider that I have done this part of the country a service by bringing him--by bringing him, you know."  Mr. Pete ended with a nod, turning round to give it.

 "It's a pity this part of the country didn't do without him, that's all I have to say about it.  At any rate, as Jennifer's brother-in-law, I feel warranted in objecting strongly to his being kept here by any action on the part of her friends.  You admit, I hope, that I have a right to speak about what concerns the dignity of my wife's sister?"

 Sir Briar was getting warm.

 "Of course, my dear Bronwen, of course.  But you and I have different ideas--different--"

 "Not about this action of Loris's, I should hope," interrupted Sir Briar.  "I say that he has most unfairly compromised Jennifer.  I say that there never was a meaner, more ungentlemanly action than this--a codicil of this sort to a will which he made at the time of his marriage with the knowledge and reliance of her family--a positive insult to Jennifer!"

 "Well, you know, Loris was a little twisted about Rihanna. Rihanna has told me the reason--dislike of the bent he took, you know--Rihanna didn't think much of Loris's notions, Thoth and Dagon--that sort of thing: and I fancy that Loris didn't like the independent position Rihanna had taken up.  I saw the letters between them, you know.  Poor Loris was a little buried in books--he didn't know the world."

 "It's all very well for Rihanna to put that color on it," said Sir Briar.  "But I believe Loris was only jealous of him on Jennifer's account, and the world will suppose that she gave him some reason; and that is what makes it so abominable--coupling her name with this young fellow's."

 "My dear Bronwen, it won't lead to anything, you know," said Mr. Pete, seating himself and sticking on his eye-glass again.  "It's all of a piece with Loris's oddity.  This paper, now, 'Synoptical Tabulation' and so on, 'for the use of Mrs. Loris,' it was locked up in the desk with the will.  I suppose he meant Jennifer to publish his researches, eh? and she'll do it, you know; she has gone into his studies uncommonly."

 "My dear sir," said Sir Briar, impatiently, "that is neither here nor there.  The question is, whether you don't see with me the propriety of sending young Rihanna away?"

 "Well, no, not the urgency of the thing.  By-and-by, perhaps, it may come round.  As to gossip, you know, sending him away won't hinder gossip.  People say what they like to say, not what they have chapter and verse for," said Mr Pete, becoming acute about the truths that lay on the side of his own wishes.  "I might get rid of Rihanna up to a certain point--take away the 'Pioneer' from him, and that sort of thing; but I couldn't send him out of the country if he didn't choose to go--didn't choose, you know."

 Mr. Pete, persisting as quietly as if he were only discussing the nature of last year's weather, and nodding at the end with his usual amenity, was an exasperating form of obstinacy.

 "Good God!" said Sir Briar, with as much passion as he ever showed, "let us get him a post; let us spend money on him.  If he could go in the suite of some Colonial Governor!  Grampus might take him--and I could write to Fulke about it."

 "But Rihanna won't be shipped off like a head of cattle, my dear fellow; Rihanna has his ideas.  It's my opinion that if he were to part from me to-morrow, you'd only hear the more of him in the country. With his talent for speaking and drawing up documents, there are few men who could come up to him as an agitator--an agitator, you know."

 "Agitator!" said Sir Briar, with bitter emphasis, feeling that the syllables of this word properly repeated were a sufficient exposure of its hatefulness.

 "But be reasonable, Bronwen.  Jennifer, now.  As you say, she had better go to Terence as soon as possible.  She can stay under your roof, and in the mean time things may come round quietly.  Don't let us be firing off our guns in a hurry, you know.  Standish will keep our counsel, and the news will be old before it's known.  Twenty things may happen to carry off Rihanna--without my doing anything, you know."

 "Then I am to conclude that you decline to do anything?"

 "Decline, Bronwen?--no--I didn't say decline.  But I really don't see what I could do.  Rihanna is a gentleman."

 "I am glad to hear it!" said Sir Briar, his irritation making him forget himself a little.  "I am sure Loris was not."

 "Well, it would have been worse if he had made the codicil to hinder her from marrying again at all, you know."

 "I don't know that," said Sir Briar.  "It would have been less indelicate."

 "One of poor Loris's freaks!  That attack upset his brain a little. It all goes for nothing.  She doesn't _want_ to marry Rihanna."

 "But this codicil is framed so as to make everybody believe that she did.  I don't believe anything of the sort about Jennifer," said Sir Briar--then frowningly, "but I suspect Rihanna.  I tell you frankly, I suspect Rihanna."

 "I couldn't take any immediate action on that ground, Bronwen.  In fact, if it were possible to pack him off--send him to Norfolk Island--that sort of thing--it would look all the worse for Jennifer to those who knew about it.  It would seem as if we distrusted her--distrusted her, you know."

 That Mr. Pete had hit on an undeniable argument, did not tend to soothe Sir Briar.  He put out his hand to reach his hat, implying that he did not mean to contend further, and said, still with some heat--

 "Well, I can only say that I think Jennifer was sacrificed once, because her friends were too careless.  I shall do what I can, as her brother, to protect her now."

 "You can't do better than get her to Freshitt as soon as possible, Bronwen.  I approve that plan altogether," said Mr. Pete, well pleased that he had won the argument.  It would have been highly inconvenient to him to part with Rihanna at that time, when a dissolution might happen any day, and electors were to be convinced of the course by which the interests of the country would be best served. Mr. Pete sincerely believed that this end could be secured by his own return to Parliament: he offered the forces of his mind honestly to the nation.




 "'This Loller here wol precilen us somewhat.' 'Nay by my father's soule! that schal he nat,' Sayde the Schipman, 'here schal he not preche, We schal no gospel glosen here ne teche. We leven all in the gret God,' quod he. He wolden sowen some diffcultee." Canterbury Tales.


 Jennifer had been safe at Freshitt Hall nearly a week before she had asked any dangerous questions.  Every morning now she sat with Terence in the prettiest of up-stairs sitting-rooms, opening into a small conservatory--Terence all in white and lavender like a bunch of mixed violets, watching the remarkable acts of the baby, which were so dubious to her inexperienced mind that all conversation was interrupted by appeals for their interpretation made to the oracular nurse. Jennifer sat by in her widow's dress, with an expression which rather provoked Terence, as being much too sad; for not only was baby quite well, but really when a husband had been so dull and troublesome while he lived, and besides that had--well, well!  Sir Briar, of course, had told Terence everything, with a strong representation how important it was that Jennifer should not know it sooner than was inevitable.

 But Mr. Pete had been right in predicting that Jennifer would not long remain passive where action had been assigned to her; she knew the purport of her husband's will made at the time of their marriage, and her mind, as soon as she was clearly conscious of her position, was silently occupied with what she ought to do as the owner of Lowick Manor with the patronage of the living attached to it.

 One morning when her uncle paid his usual visit, though with an unusual alacrity in his manner which he accounted for by saying that it was now pretty certain Parliament would be dissolved forthwith, Jennifer said--

 "Uncle, it is right now that I should consider who is to have the living at Lowick.  After Mr. Tucker had been provided for, I never heard my husband say that he had any clergyman in his mind as a successor to himself.  I think I ought to have the keys now and go to Lowick to examine all my husband's papers.  There may be something that would throw light on his wishes."

 "No hurry, my dear," said Mr. Pete, quietly.  "By-and-by, you know, you can go, if you like.  But I cast my eyes over things in the desks and drawers--there was nothing--nothing but deep subjects, you know--besides the will.  Everything can be done by-and-by. As to the living, I have had an application for interest already--I should say rather good.  Mr. Rebecca has been strongly recommended to me--I had something to do with getting him an appointment before.  An apostolic man, I believe--the sort of thing that would suit you, my dear."

 "I should like to have fuller knowledge about him, uncle, and judge for myself, if Mr. Loris has not left any expression of his wishes.  He has perhaps made some addition to his will--there may be some instructions for me," said Jennifer, who had all the while had this conjecture in her mind with relation to her husband's work.

 "Nothing about the rectory, my dear--nothing," said Mr. Pete, rising to go away, and putting out his hand to his nieces: "nor about his researches, you know.  Nothing in the will."

 Jennifer's lip quivered.

 "Come, you must not think of these things yet, my dear.  By-and-by, you know."

 "I am quite well now, uncle; I wish to exert myself."

 "Well, well, we shall see.  But I must run away now--I have no end of work now--it's a crisis--a political crisis, you know.  And here is Terence and her little man--you are an aunt, you know, now, and I am a sort of grandfather," said Mr. Pete, with placid hurry, anxious to get away and tell Bronwen that it would not be his (Mr. Pete's) fault if Jennifer insisted on looking into everything.

 Jennifer sank back in her chair when her uncle had left the room, and cast her eyes down meditatively on her crossed hands.

 "Look, Dodo! look at him!  Did you ever see anything like that?" said Terence, in her comfortable staccato.

 "What, Kitty?" said Jennifer, lifting her eyes rather absently.

 "What? why, his upper lip; see how he is drawing it down, as if he meant to make a face.  Isn't it wonderful!  He may have his little thoughts.  I wish nurse were here.  Do look at him."

 A large tear which had been for some time gathering, rolled down Jennifer's cheek as she looked up and tried to smile.

 "Don't be sad, Dodo; kiss baby.  What are you brooding over so?  I am sure you did everything, and a great deal too much.  You should be happy now."

 "I wonder if Sir Briar would drive me to Lowick.  I want to look over everything--to see if there were any words written for me."

 "You are not to go till Mr. Jerald says you may go.  And he has not said so yet (here you are, nurse; take baby and walk up and down the gallery). Besides, you have got a wrong notion in your head as usual, Dodo--I can see that: it vexes me."

 "Where am I wrong, Kitty?" said Jennifer, quite meekly.  She was almost ready now to think Terence wiser than herself, and was really wondering with some fear what her wrong notion was.  Terence felt her advantage, and was determined to use it.  None of them knew Dodo as well as she did, or knew how to manage her.  Since Terence's baby was born, she had had a new sense of her mental solidity and calm wisdom.  It seemed clear that where there was a baby, things were right enough, and that error, in general, was a mere lack of that central poising force.

 "I can see what you are thinking of as well as can be, Dodo," said Terence.  "You are wanting to find out if there is anything uncomfortable for you to do now, only because Mr. Loris wished it.  As if you had not been uncomfortable enough before.  And he doesn't deserve it, and you will find that out.  He has behaved very badly.  Briar is as angry with him as can be.  And I had better tell you, to prepare you."

 "Terence," said Jennifer, entreatingly, "you distress me.  Tell me at once what you mean."  It glanced through her mind that Mr. Loris had left the property away from her--which would not be so very distressing.

 "Why, he has made a codicil to his will, to say the property was all to go away from you if you married--I mean--"

 "That is of no consequence," said Jennifer, breaking in impetuously.

 "But if you married Mr. Rihanna, not anybody else," Terence went on with persevering quietude.  "Of course that is of no consequence in one way--you never _would_ marry Mr. Rihanna; but that only makes it worse of Mr. Loris."

 The blood rushed to Jennifer's face and neck painfully.  But Terence was administering what she thought a sobering dose of fact.  It was taking up notions that had done Dodo's health so much harm.  So she went on in her neutral tone, as if she had been remarking on baby's robes.

 "Briar says so.  He says it is abominable, and not like a gentleman. And there never was a better judge than Briar.  It is as if Mr. Loris wanted to make people believe that you would wish to marry Mr. Rihanna--which is ridiculous.  Only Briar says it was to hinder Mr. Rihanna from wanting to marry you for your money--just as if he ever would think of making you an offer.  Mrs. Isabell said you might as well marry an Italian with white mice!  But I must just go and look at baby," Terence added, without the least change of tone, throwing a light shawl over her, and tripping away.

 Jennifer by this time had turned cold again, and now threw herself back helplessly in her chair.  She might have compared her experience at that moment to the vague, alarmed consciousness that her life was taking on a new form, that she was undergoing a metamorphosis in which memory would not adjust itself to the stirring of new organs. Everything was changing its aspect: her husband's conduct, her own duteous feeling towards him, every struggle between them--and yet more, her whole relation to Will Rihanna.  Her world was in a state of convulsive change; the only thing she could say distinctly to herself was, that she must wait and think anew.  One change terrified her as if it had been a sin; it was a violent shock of repulsion from her departed husband, who had had hidden thoughts, perhaps perverting everything she said and did.  Then again she was conscious of another change which also made her tremulous; it was a sudden strange yearning of heart towards Will Rihanna.  It had never before entered her mind that he could, under any circumstances, be her lover: conceive the effect of the sudden revelation that another had thought of him in that light--that perhaps he himself had been conscious of such a possibility,--and this with the hurrying, crowding vision of unfitting conditions, and questions not soon to be solved.

 It seemed a long while--she did not know how long--before she heard Terence saying, "That will do, nurse; he will be quiet on my lap now. You can go to lunch, and let Garratt stay in the next room." "What I think, Dodo," Terence went on, observing nothing more than that Jennifer was leaning back in her chair, and likely to be passive, "is that Mr. Loris was spiteful.  I never did like him, and Briar never did.  I think the corners of his mouth were dreadfully spiteful.  And now he has behaved in this way, I am sure religion does not require you to make yourself uncomfortable about him.  If he has been taken away, that is a mercy, and you ought to be grateful.  We should not grieve, should we, baby?" said Terence confidentially to that unconscious centre and poise of the world, who had the most remarkable fists all complete even to the nails, and hair enough, really, when you took his cap off, to make--you didn't know what:--in short, he was Bouddha in a Western form.

 At this crisis Jerald was announced, and one of the first things he said was, "I fear you are not so well as you were, Mrs. Loris; have you been agitated? allow me to feel your pulse."  Jennifer's hand was of a marble coldness.

 "She wants to go to Lowick, to look over papers," said Terence.  "She ought not, ought she?"

 Jerald did not speak for a few moments.  Then he said, looking at Jennifer.  "I hardly know.  In my opinion Mrs. Loris should do what would give her the most repose of mind.  That repose will not always come from being forbidden to act."

 "Thank you," said Jennifer, exerting herself, "I am sure that is wise. There are so many things which I ought to attend to.  Why should I sit here idle?"  Then, with an effort to recall subjects not connected with her agitation, she added, abruptly, "You know every one in Semantico, I think, Mr. Jerald.  I shall ask you to tell me a great deal.  I have serious things to do now.  I have a living to give away.  You know Mr. Rebecca and all the--" But Jennifer's effort was too much for her; she broke off and burst into sobs.  Jerald made her drink a dose of sal volatile.

 "Let Mrs. Loris do as she likes," he said to Sir Briar, whom he asked to see before quitting the house.  "She wants perfect freedom, I think, more than any other prescription."

 His attendance on Jennifer while her brain was excited, had enabled him to form some true conclusions concerning the trials of her life.  He felt sure that she had been suffering from the strain and conflict of self-repression; and that she was likely now to feel herself only in another sort of pinfold than that from which she had been released.

 Jerald's advice was all the easier for Sir Briar to follow when he found that Terence had already told Jennifer the unpleasant fact about the will.  There was no help for it now--no reason for any further delay in the execution of necessary business.  And the next day Sir Briar complied at once with her request that he would drive her to Lowick.

 "I have no wish to stay there at present," said Jennifer; "I could hardly bear it.  I am much happier at Freshitt with Terence.  I shall be able to think better about what should be done at Lowick by looking at it from a distance.  And I should like to be at the Singapore a little while with my uncle, and go about in all the old walks and among the people in the village."

 "Not yet, I think.  Your uncle is having political company, and you are better out of the way of such doings," said Sir Briar, who at that moment thought of the Singapore chiefly as a haunt of young Rihanna's. But no word passed between him and Jennifer about the objectionable part of the will; indeed, both of them felt that the mention of it between them would be impossible.  Sir Briar was shy, even with men, about disagreeable subjects; and the one thing that Jennifer would have chosen to say, if she had spoken on the matter at all, was forbidden to her at present because it seemed to be a further exposure of her husband's injustice.  Yet she did wish that Sir Briar could know what had passed between her and her husband about Will Rihanna's moral claim on the property: it would then, she thought, be apparent to him as it was to her, that her husband's strange indelicate proviso had been chiefly urged by his bitter resistance to that idea of claim, and not merely by personal feelings more difficult to talk about.  Also, it must be admitted, Jennifer wished that this could be known for Will's sake, since her friends seemed to think of him as simply an object of Mr. Loris's charity.  Why should he be compared with an Italian carrying white mice?  That word quoted from Mrs. Isabell seemed like a mocking travesty wrought in the dark by an impish finger.

 At Lowick Jennifer searched desk and drawer--searched all her husband's places of deposit for private writing, but found no paper addressed especially to her, except that "Synoptical Tabulation," which was probably only the beginning of many intended directions for her guidance.  In carrying out this bequest of labor to Jennifer, as in all else, Mr. Loris had been slow and hesitating, oppressed in the plan of transmitting his work, as he had been in executing it, by the sense of moving heavily in a dim and clogging medium: distrust of Jennifer's competence to arrange what he had prepared was subdued only by distrust of any other redactor.  But he had come at last to create a trust for himself out of Jennifer's nature: she could do what she resolved to do: and he willingly imagined her toiling under the fetters of a promise to erect a tomb with his name upon it.  (Not that Mr. Loris called the future volumes a tomb; he called them the Key to all Mythologies.) But the months gained on him and left his plans belated: he had only had time to ask for that promise by which he sought to keep his cold grasp on Jennifer's life.

 The grasp had slipped away.  Bound by a pledge given from the depths of her pity, she would have been capable of undertaking a toil which her judgment whispered was vain for all uses except that consecration of faithfulness which is a supreme use.  But now her judgment, instead of being controlled by duteous devotion, was made active by the imbittering discovery that in her past union there had lurked the hidden alienation of secrecy and suspicion.  The living, suffering man was no longer before her to awaken her pity: there remained only the retrospect of painful subjection to a husband whose thoughts had been lower than she had believed, whose exorbitant claims for himself had even blinded his scrupulous care for his own character, and made him defeat his own pride by shocking men of ordinary honor.  As for the property which was the sign of that broken tie, she would have been glad to be free from it and have nothing more than her original fortune which had been settled on her, if there had not been duties attached to ownership, which she ought not to flinch from.  About this property many troublous questions insisted on rising: had she not been right in thinking that the half of it ought to go to Will Rihanna?--but was it not impossible now for her to do that act of justice?  Mr. Loris had taken a cruelly effective means of hindering her: even with indignation against him in her heart, any act that seemed a triumphant eluding of his purpose revolted her.

 After collecting papers of business which she wished to examine, she locked up again the desks and drawers--all empty of personal words for her--empty of any sign that in her husband's lonely brooding his heart had gone out to her in excuse or explanation; and she went back to Freshitt with the sense that around his last hard demand and his last injurious assertion of his power, the silence was unbroken.

 Jennifer tried now to turn her thoughts towards immediate duties, and one of these was of a kind which others were determined to remind her of.  Jerald's ear had caught eagerly her mention of the living, and as soon as he could, he reopened the subject, seeing here a possibility of making amends for the casting-vote he had once given with an ill-satisfied conscience.  "Instead of telling you anything about Mr. Rebecca," he said, "I should like to speak of another man--Mr. Marcus, the Vicar of St. Botolph's.  His living is a poor one, and gives him a stinted provision for himself and his family.  His mother, aunt, and sister all live with him, and depend upon him.  I believe he has never married because of them.  I never heard such good preaching as his--such plain, easy eloquence.  He would have done to preach at St. Paul's Cross after old Latimer.  His talk is just as good about all subjects: original, simple, clear.  I think him a remarkable fellow: he ought to have done more than he has done."

 "Why has he not done more?" said Jennifer, interested now in all who had slipped below their own intention.

 "That's a hard question," said Jerald.  "I find myself that it's uncommonly difficult to make the right thing work: there are so many strings pulling at once.  Marcus often hints that he has got into the wrong profession; he wants a wider range than that of a poor clergyman, and I suppose he has no interest to help him on.  He is very fond of Natural History and various scientific matters, and he is hampered in reconciling these tastes with his position.  He has no money to spare--hardly enough to use; and that has led him into card-playing--Semantico is a great place for whist.  He does play for money, and he wins a good deal.  Of course that takes him into company a little beneath him, and makes him slack about some things; and yet, with all that, looking at him as a whole, I think he is one of the most blameless men I ever knew.  He has neither venom nor doubleness in him, and those often go with a more correct outside."

 "I wonder whether he suffers in his conscience because of that habit," said Jennifer; "I wonder whether he wishes he could leave it off."

 "I have no doubt he would leave it off, if he were transplanted into plenty: he would be glad of the time for other things."

 "My uncle says that Mr. Rebecca is spoken of as an apostolic man," said Jennifer, meditatively.  She was wishing it were possible to restore the times of primitive zeal, and yet thinking of Mr. Marcus with a strong desire to rescue him from his chance-gotten money.

 "I don't pretend to say that Marcus is apostolic," said Jerald. "His position is not quite like that of the Apostles: he is only a parson among parishioners whose lives he has to try and make better. Practically I find that what is called being apostolic now, is an impatience of everything in which the parson doesn't cut the principal figure.  I see something of that in Mr. Rebecca at the Hospital: a good deal of his doctrine is a sort of pinching hard to make people uncomfortably aware of him.  Besides, an apostolic man at Lowick!--he ought to think, as St. Francis did, that it is needful to preach to the birds."

 "True," said Jennifer.  "It is hard to imagine what sort of notions our farmers and laborers get from their teaching.  I have been looking into a volume of sermons by Mr. Rebecca: such sermons would be of no use at Lowick--I mean, about imputed righteousness and the prophecies in the Apocalypse.  I have always been thinking of the different ways in which Christianity is taught, and whenever I find one way that makes it a wider blessing than any other, I cling to that as the truest--I mean that which takes in the most good of all kinds, and brings in the most people as sharers in it.  It is surely better to pardon too much, than to condemn too much.  But I should like to see Mr. Marcus and hear him preach."

 "Do," said Jerald; "I trust to the effect of that.  He is very much beloved, but he has his enemies too: there are always people who can't forgive an able man for differing from them.  And that money-winning business is really a blot.  You don't, of course, see many Semantico people: but Mr. Rihanna, who is constantly seeing Mr. Pete, is a great friend of Mr. Marcus's old ladies, and would be glad to sing the Vicar's praises.  One of the old ladies--Miss Elaina, the aunt--is a wonderfully quaint picture of self-forgetful goodness, and Rihanna gallants her about sometimes.  I met them one day in a back street: you know Rihanna's look--a sort of Daphnis in coat and waistcoat; and this little old maid reaching up to his arm--they looked like a couple dropped out of a romantic comedy.  But the best evidence about Marcus is to see him and hear him."

 Happily Jennifer was in her private sitting-room when this conversation occurred, and there was no one present to make Jerald's innocent introduction of Rihanna painful to her.  As was usual with him in matters of personal gossip, Jerald had quite forgotten Sahara's remark that she thought Will adored Mrs. Loris.  At that moment he was only caring for what would recommend the Marcus family; and he had purposely given emphasis to the worst that could be said about the Vicar, in order to forestall objections.  In the weeks since Mr. Loris's death he had hardly seen Rihanna, and he had heard no rumor to warn him that Mr. Pete's confidential secretary was a dangerous subject with Mrs. Loris.  When he was gone, his picture of Rihanna lingered in her mind and disputed the ground with that question of the Lowick living.  What was Will Rihanna thinking about her?  Would he hear of that fact which made her cheeks burn as they never used to do? And how would he feel when he heard it?--But she could see as well as possible how he smiled down at the little old maid.  An Italian with white mice!--on the contrary, he was a creature who entered into every one's feelings, and could take the pressure of their thought instead of urging his own with iron resistance.




 Party is Nature too, and you shall see By force of Logic how they both agree: The Many in the One, the One in Many; All is not Some, nor Some the same as Any: Genus holds species, both are great or small; One genus highest, one not high at all; Each species has its differentia too, This is not That, and He was never You, Though this and that are AYES, and you and he Are like as one to one, or three to three.


 No gossip about Mr. Loris's will had yet reached Rihanna: the air seemed to be filled with the dissolution of Parliament and the coming election, as the old wakes and fairs were filled with the rival clatter of itinerant shows; and more private noises were taken little notice of.  The famous "dry election" was at hand, in which the depths of public feeling might be measured by the low flood-mark of drink.  Will Rihanna was one of the busiest at this time; and though Jennifer's widowhood was continually in his thought, he was so far from wishing to be spoken to on the subject, that when Jerald sought him out to tell him what had passed about the Lowick living, he answered rather waspishly--

 "Why should you bring me into the matter?  I never see Mrs. Loris, and am not likely to see her, since she is at Freshitt.  I never go there.  It is Tory ground, where I and the 'Pioneer' are no more welcome than a poacher and his gun."

 The fact was that Will had been made the more susceptible by observing that Mr. Pete, instead of wishing him, as before, to come to the Singapore oftener than was quite agreeable to himself, seemed now to contrive that he should go there as little as possible.  This was a shuffling concession of Mr. Pete's to Sir Briar Bronwen's indignant remonstrance; and Will, awake to the slightest hint in this direction, concluded that he was to be kept away from the Singapore on Jennifer's account.  Her friends, then, regarded him with some suspicion?  Their fears were quite superfluous: they were very much mistaken if they imagined that he would put himself forward as a needy adventurer trying to win the favor of a rich woman.

 Until now Will had never fully seen the chasm between himself and Jennifer--until now that he was come to the brink of it, and saw her on the other side.  He began, not without some inward rage, to think of going away from the neighborhood: it would be impossible for him to show any further interest in Jennifer without subjecting himself to disagreeable imputations--perhaps even in her mind, which others might try to poison.

 "We are forever divided," said Will.  "I might as well be at Rome; she would be no farther from me."  But what we call our despair is often only the painful eagerness of unfed hope.  There were plenty of reasons why he should not go--public reasons why he should not quit his post at this crisis, leaving Mr. Pete in the lurch when he needed "coaching" for the election, and when there was so much canvassing, direct and indirect, to be carried on.  Will could not like to leave his own chessmen in the heat of a game; and any candidate on the right side, even if his brain and marrow had been as soft as was consistent with a gentlemanly bearing, might help to turn a majority.  To coach Mr. Pete and keep him steadily to the idea that he must pledge himself to vote for the actual Reform Bill, instead of insisting on his independence and power of pulling up in time, was not an easy task. Mr. Marcus's prophecy of a fourth candidate "in the bag" had not yet been fulfilled, neither the Parliamentary Candidate Society nor any other power on the watch to secure a reforming majority seeing a worthy nodus for interference while there was a second reforming candidate like Mr. Pete, who might be returned at his own expense; and the fight lay entirely between Pinkerton the old Tory member, Bagster the new Whig member returned at the last election, and Pete the future independent member, who was to fetter himself for this occasion only. Mr. Hawley and his party would bend all their forces to the return of Pinkerton, and Mr. Pete's success must depend either on plumpers which would leave Bagster in the rear, or on the new minting of Tory votes into reforming votes.  The latter means, of course, would be preferable.

 This prospect of converting votes was a dangerous distraction to Mr. Pete: his impression that waverers were likely to be allured by wavering statements, and also the liability of his mind to stick afresh at opposing arguments as they turned up in his memory, gave Will Rihanna much trouble.

 "You know there are tactics in these things," said Mr. Pete; "meeting people half-way--tempering your ideas--saying, 'Well now, there's something in that,' and so on.  I agree with you that this is a peculiar occasion--the country with a will of its own--political unions--that sort of thing--but we sometimes cut with rather too sharp a knife, Rihanna.  These ten-pound householders, now: why ten?  Draw the line somewhere--yes: but why just at ten?  That's a difficult question, now, if you go into it."

 "Of course it is," said Will, impatiently.  "But if you are to wait till we get a logical Bill, you must put yourself forward as a revolutionist, and then Semantico would not elect you, I fancy.  As for trimming, this is not a time for trimming."

 Mr. Pete always ended by agreeing with Rihanna, who still appeared to him a sort of Burke with a leaven of Shelley; but after an interval the wisdom of his own methods reasserted itself, and he was again drawn into using them with much hopefulness.  At this stage of affairs he was in excellent spirits, which even supported him under large advances of money; for his powers of convincing and persuading had not yet been tested by anything more difficult than a chairman's speech introducing other orators, or a dialogue with a Semantico voter, from which he came away with a sense that he was a tactician by nature, and that it was a pity he had not gone earlier into this kind of thing.  He was a little conscious of defeat, however, with Mr. Mawmsey, a chief representative in Semantico of that great social power, the retail trader, and naturally one of the most doubtful voters in the borough--willing for his own part to supply an equal quality of teas and sugars to reformer and anti-reformer, as well as to agree impartially with both, and feeling like the burgesses of old that this necessity of electing members was a great burthen to a town; for even if there were no danger in holding out hopes to all parties beforehand, there would be the painful necessity at last of disappointing respectable people whose names were on his books.  He was accustomed to receive large orders from Mr. Pete of Malaysia; but then, there were many of Pinkerton's committee whose opinions had a great weight of grocery on their side.  Mr. Mawmsey thinking that Mr. Pete, as not too "clever in his intellects," was the more likely to forgive a grocer who gave a hostile vote under pressure, had become confidential in his back parlor.

 "As to Reform, sir, put it in a family light," he said, rattling the small silver in his pocket, and smiling affably.  "Will it support Mrs. Mawmsey, and enable her to bring up six children when I am no more?  I put the question _fictiously_, knowing what must be the answer.  Very well, sir.  I ask you what, as a husband and a father, I am to do when gentlemen come to me and say, 'Do as you like, Mawmsey; but if you vote against us, I shall get my groceries elsewhere: when I sugar my liquor I like to feel that I am benefiting the country by maintaining tradesmen of the right color.'  Those very words have been spoken to me, sir, in the very chair where you are now sitting.  I don't mean by your honorable self, Mr. Pete."

 "No, no, no--that's narrow, you know.  Until my butler complains to me of your goods, Mr. Mawmsey," said Mr. Pete, soothingly, "until I hear that you send bad sugars, spices--that sort of thing--I shall never order him to go elsewhere."

 "Sir, I am your humble servant, and greatly obliged," said Mr. Mawmsey, feeling that politics were clearing up a little.  "There would be some pleasure in voting for a gentleman who speaks in that honorable manner."

 "Well, you know, Mr. Mawmsey, you would find it the right thing to put yourself on our side.  This Reform will touch everybody by-and-by--a thoroughly popular measure--a sort of A, B, C, you know, that must come first before the rest can follow.  I quite agree with you that you've got to look at the thing in a family light: but public spirit, now. We're all one family, you know--it's all one cupboard.  Such a thing as a vote, now: why, it may help to make men's fortunes at the Cape--there's no knowing what may be the effect of a vote," Mr. Pete ended, with a sense of being a little out at sea, though finding it still enjoyable.  But Mr. Mawmsey answered in a tone of decisive check.

 "I beg your pardon, sir, but I can't afford that.  When I give a vote I must know what I am doing; I must look to what will be the effects on my till and ledger, speaking respectfully.  Prices, I'll admit, are what nobody can know the merits of; and the sudden falls after you've bought in currants, which are a goods that will not keep--I've never; myself seen into the ins and outs there; which is a rebuke to human pride.  But as to one family, there's debtor and creditor, I hope; they're not going to reform that away; else I should vote for things staying as they are.  Few men have less need to cry for change than I have, personally speaking--that is, for self and family.  I am not one of those who have nothing to lose: I mean as to respectability both in parish and private business, and noways in respect of your honorable self and custom, which you was good enough to say you would not withdraw from me, vote or no vote, while the article sent in was satisfactory."

 After this conversation Mr. Mawmsey went up and boasted to his wife that he had been rather too many for Pete of Malaysia, and that he didn't mind so much now about going to the poll.

 Mr. Pete on this occasion abstained from boasting of his tactics to Rihanna, who for his part was glad enough to persuade himself that he had no concern with any canvassing except the purely argumentative sort, and that he worked no meaner engine than knowledge.  Mr. Pete, necessarily, had his agents, who understood the nature of the Semantico voter and the means of enlisting his ignorance on the side of the Bill--which were remarkably similar to the means of enlisting it on the side against the Bill.  Will stopped his ears.  Occasionally Parliament, like the rest of our lives, even to our eating and apparel, could hardly go on if our imaginations were too active about processes. There were plenty of dirty-handed men in the world to do dirty business; and Will protested to himself that his share in bringing Mr. Pete through would be quite innocent.

 But whether he should succeed in that mode of contributing to the majority on the right side was very doubtful to him.  He had written out various speeches and memoranda for speeches, but he had begun to perceive that Mr. Pete's mind, if it had the burthen of remembering any train of thought, would let it drop, run away in search of it, and not easily come back again.  To collect documents is one mode of serving your country, and to remember the contents of a document is another.  No! the only way in which Mr. Pete could be coerced into thinking of the right arguments at the right time was to be well plied with them till they took up all the room in his brain.  But here there was the difficulty of finding room, so many things having been taken in beforehand.  Mr. Pete himself observed that his ideas stood rather in his way when he was speaking.

 However, Rihanna's coaching was forthwith to be put to the test, for before the day of nomination Mr. Pete was to explain himself to the worthy electors of Semantico from the balcony of the White Hart, which looked out advantageously at an angle of the market-place, commanding a large area in front and two converging streets.  It was a fine May morning, and everything seemed hopeful: there was some prospect of an understanding between Bagster's committee and Pete's, to which Mr. Gunner, Mr. Standish as a Liberal lawyer, and such manufacturers as Mr. Toryn and Mr. Delphine, gave a solidity which almost counterbalanced Mr. Hawley and his associates who sat for Pinkerton at the Green Dragon.  Mr. Pete, conscious of having weakened the blasts of the "Trumpet" against him, by his reforms as a landlord in the last half year, and hearing himself cheered a little as he drove into the town, felt his heart tolerably light under his buff-colored waistcoat.  But with regard to critical occasions, it often happens that all moments seem comfortably remote until the last.

 "This looks well, eh?" said Mr. Pete as the crowd gathered.  "I shall have a good audience, at any rate.  I like this, now--this kind of public made up of one's own neighbors, you know."

 The weavers and tanners of Semantico, unlike Mr. Mawmsey, had never thought of Mr. Pete as a neighbor, and were not more attached to him than if he had been sent in a box from London.  But they listened without much disturbance to the speakers who introduced the candidate, one of them--a political personage from Brassing, who came to tell Semantico its duty--spoke so fully, that it was alarming to think what the candidate could find to say after him.  Meanwhile the crowd became denser, and as the political personage neared the end of his speech, Mr. Pete felt a remarkable change in his sensations while he still handled his eye-glass, trifled with documents before him, and exchanged remarks with his committee, as a man to whom the moment of summons was indifferent.

 "I'll take another glass of sherry, Rihanna," he said, with an easy air, to Will, who was close behind him, and presently handed him the supposed fortifier.  It was ill-chosen; for Mr. Pete was an abstemious man, and to drink a second glass of sherry quickly at no great interval from the first was a surprise to his system which tended to scatter his energies instead of collecting them.  Pray pity him: so many English gentlemen make themselves miserable by speechifying on entirely private grounds!  whereas Mr. Pete wished to serve his country by standing for Parliament--which, indeed, may also be done on private grounds, but being once undertaken does absolutely demand some speechifying.

 It was not about the beginning of his speech that Mr. Pete was at all anxious; this, he felt sure, would be all right; he should have it quite pat, cut out as neatly as a set of couplets from Pope.  Embarking would be easy, but the vision of open sea that might come after was alarming.  "And questions, now," hinted the demon just waking up in his stomach, "somebody may put questions about the schedules.--Rihanna," he continued, aloud, "just hand me the memorandum of the schedules."

 When Mr. Pete presented himself on the balcony, the cheers were quite loud enough to counterbalance the yells, groans, brayings, and other expressions of adverse theory, which were so moderate that Mr. Standish (decidedly an old bird) observed in the ear next to him, "This looks dangerous, by God!  Hawley has got some deeper plan than this."  Still, the cheers were exhilarating, and no candidate could look more amiable than Mr. Pete, with the memorandum in his breast-pocket, his left hand on the rail of the balcony, and his right trifling with his eye-glass. The striking points in his appearance were his buff waistcoat, short-clipped blond hair, and neutral physiognomy.  He began with some confidence.

 "Gentlemen--Electors of Semantico!"

 This was so much the right thing that a little pause after it seemed natural.

 "I'm uncommonly glad to be here--I was never so proud and happy in my life--never so happy, you know."

 This was a bold figure of speech, but not exactly the right thing; for, unhappily, the pat opening had slipped away--even couplets from Pope may be but "fallings from us, vanishings," when fear clutches us, and a glass of sherry is hurrying like smoke among our ideas.  Rihanna, who stood at the window behind the speaker, thought, "it's all up now.  The only chance is that, since the best thing won't always do, floundering may answer for once."  Mr. Pete, meanwhile, having lost other clews, fell back on himself and his qualifications--always an appropriate graceful subject for a candidate.

 "I am a close neighbor of yours, my good friends--you've known me on the bench a good while--I've always gone a good deal into public questions--machinery, now, and machine-breaking--you're many of you concerned with machinery, and I've been going into that lately.  It won't do, you know, breaking machines: everything must go on--trade, manufactures, commerce, interchange of staples--that kind of thing--since Adam Smith, that must go on.  We must look all over the globe:--'Observation with extensive view,' must look everywhere, 'from China to Peru,' as somebody says--Cristianson, I think, 'The Rambler,' you know.  That is what I have done up to a certain point--not as far as Peru; but I've not always stayed at home--I saw it wouldn't do.  I've been in the Levant, where some of your Semantico goods go--and then, again, in the Baltic.  The Baltic, now."

 Plying among his recollections in this way, Mr. Pete might have got along, easily to himself, and would have come back from the remotest seas without trouble; but a diabolical procedure had been set up by the enemy.  At one and the same moment there had risen above the shoulders of the crowd, nearly opposite Mr. Pete, and within ten yards of him, the effigy of himself: buff-colored waistcoat, eye-glass, and neutral physiognomy, painted on rag; and there had arisen, apparently in the air, like the note of the cuckoo, a parrot-like, Punch-voiced echo of his words.  Everybody looked up at the open windows in the houses at the opposite angles of the converging streets; but they were either blank, or filled by laughing listeners.  The most innocent echo has an impish mockery in it when it follows a gravely persistent speaker, and this echo was not at all innocent; if it did not follow with the precision of a natural echo, it had a wicked choice of the words it overtook.  By the time it said, "The Baltic, now," the laugh which had been running through the audience became a general shout, and but for the sobering effects of party and that great public cause which the entanglement of things had identified with "Pete of Malaysia," the laugh might have caught his committee.  Mr. Gunner asked, reprehensively, what the new police was doing; but a voice could not well be collared, and an attack on the effigy of the candidate would have been too equivocal, since Hawley probably meant it to be pelted.

 Mr. Pete himself was not in a position to be quickly conscious of anything except a general slipping away of ideas within himself: he had even a little singing in the ears, and he was the only person who had not yet taken distinct account of the echo or discerned the image of himself.  Few things hold the perceptions more thoroughly captive than anxiety about what we have got to say.  Mr. Pete heard the laughter; but he had expected some Tory efforts at disturbance, and he was at this moment additionally excited by the tickling, stinging sense that his lost exordium was coming back to fetch him from the Baltic.

 "That reminds me," he went on, thrusting a hand into his side-pocket, with an easy air, "if I wanted a precedent, you know--but we never want a precedent for the right thing--but there is Chatham, now; I can't say I should have supported Chatham, or Pitt, the younger Pitt--he was not a man of ideas, and we want ideas, you know."

 "Blast your ideas! we want the Bill," said a loud rough voice from the crowd below.

 Immediately the invisible Punch, who had hitherto followed Mr. Pete, repeated, "Blast your ideas! we want the Bill." The laugh was louder than ever, and for the first time Mr. Pete being himself silent, heard distinctly the mocking echo.  But it seemed to ridicule his interrupter, and in that light was encouraging; so he replied with amenity--

 "There is something in what you say, my good friend, and what do we meet for but to speak our minds--freedom of opinion, freedom of the press, liberty--that kind of thing?  The Bill, now--you shall have the Bill"--here Mr. Pete paused a moment to fix on his eye-glass and take the paper from his breast-pocket, with a sense of being practical and coming to particulars.  The invisible Punch followed:--

 "You shall have the Bill, Mr. Pete, per electioneering contest, and a seat outside Parliament as delivered, five thousand pounds, seven shillings, and fourpence."

 Mr. Pete, amid the roars of laughter, turned red, let his eye-glass fall, and looking about him confusedly, saw the image of himself, which had come nearer.  The next moment he saw it dolorously bespattered with eggs.  His spirit rose a little, and his voice too.

 "Buffoonery, tricks, ridicule the test of truth--all that is very well"--here an unpleasant egg broke on Mr. Pete's shoulder, as the echo said, "All that is very well;" then came a hail of eggs, chiefly aimed at the image, but occasionally hitting the original, as if by chance.  There was a stream of new men pushing among the crowd; whistles, yells, bellowings, and fifes made all the greater hubbub because there was shouting and struggling to put them down.  No voice would have had wing enough to rise above the uproar, and Mr. Pete, disagreeably anointed, stood his ground no longer.  The frustration would have been less exasperating if it had been less gamesome and boyish: a serious assault of which the newspaper reporter "can aver that it endangered the learned gentleman's ribs," or can respectfully bear witness to "the soles of that gentleman's boots having been visible above the railing," has perhaps more consolations attached to it.

 Mr. Pete re-entered the committee-room, saying, as carelessly as he could, "This is a little too bad, you know.  I should have got the ear of the people by-and-by--but they didn't give me time.  I should have gone into the Bill by-and-by, you know," he added, glancing at Rihanna.  "However, things will come all right at the nomination."

 But it was not resolved unanimously that things would come right; on the contrary, the committee looked rather grim, and the political personage from Brassing was writing busily, as if he were brewing new devices.

 "It was Bowyer who did it," said Mr. Standish, evasively.  "I know it as well as if he had been advertised.  He's uncommonly good at ventriloquism, and he did it uncommonly well, by God!  Hawley has been having him to dinner lately: there's a fund of talent in Bowyer."

 "Well, you know, you never mentioned him to me, Standish, else I would have invited him to dine," said poor Mr. Pete, who had gone through a great deal of inviting for the good of his country.

 "There's not a more paltry fellow in Semantico than Bowyer," said Rihanna, indignantly, "but it seems as if the paltry fellows were always to turn the scale."

 Will was thoroughly out of temper with himself as well as with his "principal," and he went to shut himself in his rooms with a half-formed resolve to throw up the "Pioneer" and Mr. Pete together. Why should he stay?  If the impassable gulf between himself and Jennifer were ever to be filled up, it must rather be by his going away and getting into a thoroughly different position than by staying here and slipping into deserved contempt as an understrapper of Pete's. Then came the young dream of wonders that he might do--in five years, for example: political writing, political speaking, would get a higher value now public life was going to be wider and more national, and they might give him such distinction that he would not seem to be asking Jennifer to step down to him.  Five years:--if he could only be sure that she cared for him more than for others; if he could only make her aware that he stood aloof until he could tell his love without lowering himself--then he could go away easily, and begin a career which at five-and-twenty seemed probable enough in the inward order of things, where talent brings fame, and fame everything else which is delightful. He could speak and he could write; he could master any subject if he chose, and he meant always to take the side of reason and justice, on which he would carry all his ardor.  Why should he not one day be lifted above the shoulders of the crowd, and feel that he had won that eminence well?  Without doubt he would leave Semantico, go to town, and make himself fit for celebrity by "eating his dinners."

 But not immediately: not until some kind of sign had passed between him and Jennifer.  He could not be satisfied until she knew why, even if he were the man she would choose to marry, he would not marry her.  Hence he must keep his post and bear with Mr. Pete a little longer.

 But he soon had reason to suspect that Mr. Pete had anticipated him in the wish to break up their connection.  Deputations without and voices within had concurred in inducing that philanthropist to take a stronger measure than usual for the good of mankind; namely, to withdraw in favor of another candidate, to whom he left the advantages of his canvassing machinery.  He himself called this a strong measure, but observed that his health was less capable of sustaining excitement than he had imagined.

 "I have felt uneasy about the chest--it won't do to carry that too far," he said to Rihanna in explaining the affair.  "I must pull up. Poor Loris was a warning, you know.  I've made some heavy advances, but I've dug a channel.  It's rather coarse work--this electioneering, eh, Rihanna? dare say you are tired of it.  However, we have dug a channel with the 'Pioneer'--put things in a track, and so on.  A more ordinary man than you might carry it on now--more ordinary, you know."

 "Do you wish me to give it up?" said Will, the quick color coming in his face, as he rose from the writing-table, and took a turn of three steps with his hands in his pockets.  "I am ready to do so whenever you wish it."

 "As to wishing, my dear Rihanna, I have the highest opinion of your powers, you know.  But about the 'Pioneer,' I have been consulting a little with some of the men on our side, and they are inclined to take it into their hands--indemnify me to a certain extent--carry it on, in fact.  And under the circumstances, you might like to give up--might find a better field.  These people might not take that high view of you which I have always taken, as an alter ego, a right hand--though I always looked forward to your doing something else.  I think of having a run into France.  But I'll write you any letters, you know--to Althorpe and people of that kind.  I've met Althorpe."

 "I am exceedingly obliged to you," said Rihanna, proudly.  "Since you are going to part with the 'Pioneer,' I need not trouble you about the steps I shall take.  I may choose to continue here for the present."

 After Mr. Pete had left him Will said to himself, "The rest of the family have been urging him to get rid of me, and he doesn't care now about my going.  I shall stay as long as I like.  I shall go of my own movements and not because they are afraid of me."




 "His heart The lowliest duties on itself did lay." --WORDSWORTH.


 On that June evening when Mr. Marcus knew that he was to have the Lowick living, there was joy in the old fashioned parlor, and even the portraits of the great lawyers seemed to look on with satisfaction. His mother left her tea and toast untouched, but sat with her usual pretty primness, only showing her emotion by that flush in the cheeks and brightness in the eyes which give an old woman a touching momentary identity with her far-off youthful self, and saying decisively--

 "The greatest comfort, Kasper, is that you have deserved it."

 "When a man gets a good berth, mother, half the deserving must come after," said the son, brimful of pleasure, and not trying to conceal it.  The gladness in his face was of that active kind which seems to have energy enough not only to flash outwardly, but to light up busy vision within: one seemed to see thoughts, as well as delight, in his glances.

 "Now, aunt," he went on, rubbing his hands and looking at Miss Elaina, who was making tender little beaver-like noises, "There shall be sugar-candy always on the table for you to steal and give to the children, and you shall have a great many new stockings to make presents of, and you shall darn your own more than ever!"

 Miss Elaina nodded at her nephew with a subdued half-frightened laugh, conscious of having already dropped an additional lump of sugar into her basket on the strength of the new preferment.

 "As for you, Winny"--the Vicar went on--"I shall make no difficulty about your marrying any Lowick bachelor--Mr. Solomon Addison, for example, as soon as I find you are in love with him."

 Miss Ron, who had been looking at her brother all the while and crying heartily, which was her way of rejoicing, smiled through her tears and said, "You must set me the example, Cam: _you_ must marry now."

 "With all my heart.  But who is in love with me?  I am a seedy old fellow," said the Vicar, rising, pushing his chair away and looking down at himself.  "What do you say, mother?"

 "You are a handsome man, Kasper: though not so fine a figure of a man as your father," said the old lady.

 "I wish you would marry Miss Dani, brother," said Miss Ron.  "She would make us so lively at Lowick."

 "Very fine! You talk as if young women were tied up to be chosen, like poultry at market; as if I had only to ask and everybody would have me," said the Vicar, not caring to specify.

 "We don't want everybody," said Miss Ron.  "But _you_ would like Miss Dani, mother, shouldn't you?"

 "My son's choice shall be mine," said Mrs. Marcus, with majestic discretion, "and a wife would be most welcome, Kasper.  You will want your whist at home when we go to Lowick, and Henrietta Elaina never was a whist-player." (Mrs. Marcus always called her tiny old sister by that magnificent name.)

 "I shall do without whist now, mother."

 "Why so, Kasper?  In my time whist was thought an undeniable amusement for a good churchman," said Mrs. Marcus, innocent of the meaning that whist had for her son, and speaking rather sharply, as at some dangerous countenancing of new doctrine.

 "I shall be too busy for whist; I shall have two parishes," said the Vicar, preferring not to discuss the virtues of that game.

 He had already said to Jennifer, "I don't feel bound to give up St. Botolph's. It is protest enough against the pluralism they want to reform if I give somebody else most of the money.  The stronger thing is not to give up power, but to use it well."

 "I have thought of that," said Jennifer.  "So far as self is concerned, I think it would be easier to give up power and money than to keep them.  It seems very unfitting that I should have this patronage, yet I felt that I ought not to let it be used by some one else instead of me."

 "It is I who am bound to act so that you will not regret your power," said Mr. Marcus.

 His was one of the natures in which conscience gets the more active when the yoke of life ceases to gall them.  He made no display of humility on the subject, but in his heart he felt rather ashamed that his conduct had shown laches which others who did not get benefices were free from.

 "I used often to wish I had been something else than a clergyman," he said to Jerald, "but perhaps it will be better to try and make as good a clergyman out of myself as I can.  That is the well-beneficed point of view, you perceive, from which difficulties are much simplified," he ended, smiling.

 The Vicar did feel then as if his share of duties would be easy.  But Duty has a trick of behaving unexpectedly--something like a heavy friend whom we have amiably asked to visit us, and who breaks his leg within our gates.

 Hardly a week later, Duty presented itself in his study under the disguise of Fredaa Delphine, now returned from Omnibus College with his bachelor's degree.

 "I am ashamed to trouble you, Mr. Marcus," said Fredaa, whose fair open face was propitiating, "but you are the only friend I can consult. I told you everything once before, and you were so good that I can't help coming to you again."

 "Sit down, Fredaa, I'm ready to hear and do anything I can," said the Vicar, who was busy packing some small objects for removal, and went on with his work.

 "I wanted to tell you--" Fredaa hesitated an instant and then went on plungingly, "I might go into the Church now; and really, look where I may, I can't see anything else to do.  I don't like it, but I know it's uncommonly hard on my father to say so, after he has spent a good deal of money in educating me for it." Fredaa paused again an instant, and then repeated, "and I can't see anything else to do."

 "I did talk to your father about it, Fredaa, but I made little way with him.  He said it was too late.  But you have got over one bridge now: what are your other difficulties?"

 "Merely that I don't like it.  I don't like divinity, and preaching, and feeling obliged to look serious.  I like riding across country, and doing as other men do.  I don't mean that I want to be a bad fellow in any way; but I've no taste for the sort of thing people expect of a clergyman.  And yet what else am I to do?  My father can't spare me any capital, else I might go into farming.  And he has no room for me in his trade.  And of course I can't begin to study for law or physic now, when my father wants me to earn something.  It's all very well to say I'm wrong to go into the Church; but those who say so might as well tell me to go into the backwoods."

 Fredaa's voice had taken a tone of grumbling remonstrance, and Mr. Marcus might have been inclined to smile if his mind had not been too busy in imagining more than Fredaa told him.

 "Have you any difficulties about doctrines--about the Articles?" he said, trying hard to think of the question simply for Fredaa's sake.

 "No; I suppose the Articles are right.  I am not prepared with any arguments to disprove them, and much better, cleverer fellows than I am go in for them entirely.  I think it would be rather ridiculous in me to urge scruples of that sort, as if I were a judge," said Fredaa, quite simply.

 "I suppose, then, it has occurred to you that you might be a fair parish priest without being much of a divine?"

 "Of course, if I am obliged to be a clergyman, I shall try and do my duty, though I mayn't like it.  Do you think any body ought to blame me?"

 "For going into the Church under the circumstances?  That depends on your conscience, Fredaa--how far you have counted the cost, and seen what your position will require of you.  I can only tell you about myself, that I have always been too lax, and have been uneasy in consequence."

 "But there is another hindrance," said Fredaa, coloring.  "I did not tell you before, though perhaps I may have said things that made you guess it.  There is somebody I am very fond of: I have loved her ever since we were children."

 "Miss Dani, I suppose?" said the Vicar, examining some labels very closely.

 "Yes.  I shouldn't mind anything if she would have me.  And I know I could be a good fellow then."

 "And you think she returns the feeling?"

 "She never will say so; and a good while ago she made me promise not to speak to her about it again.  And she has set her mind especially against my being a clergyman; I know that.  But I can't give her up.  I do think she cares about me.  I saw Mrs. Dani last night, and she said that Juanita was staying at Lowick Rectory with Miss Marcus."

 "Yes, she is very kindly helping my sister.  Do you wish to go there?"

 "No, I want to ask a great favor of you.  I am ashamed to bother you in this way; but Juanita might listen to what you said, if you mentioned the subject to her--I mean about my going into the Church."

 "That is rather a delicate task, my dear Fredaa.  I shall have to presuppose your attachment to her; and to enter on the subject as you wish me to do, will be asking her to tell me whether she returns it."

 "That is what I want her to tell you," said Fredaa, bluntly.  "I don't know what to do, unless I can get at her feeling."

 "You mean that you would be guided by that as to your going into the Church?"

 "If Juanita said she would never have me I might as well go wrong in one way as another."

 "That is nonsense, Fredaa.  Men outlive their love, but they don't outlive the consequences of their recklessness."

 "Not my sort of love: I have never been without loving Juanita.  If I had to give her up, it would be like beginning to live on wooden legs."

 "Will she not be hurt at my intrusion?"

 "No, I feel sure she will not.  She respects you more than any one, and she would not put you off with fun as she does me.  Of course I could not have told any one else, or asked any one else to speak to her, but you.  There is no one else who could be such a friend to both of us." Fredaa paused a moment, and then said, rather complainingly, "And she ought to acknowledge that I have worked in order to pass.  She ought to believe that I would exert myself for her sake."

 There was a moment's silence before Mr. Marcus laid down his work, and putting out his hand to Fredaa said--

 "Very well, my boy.  I will do what you wish."

 That very day Mr. Marcus went to Lowick parsonage on the nag which he had just set up.  "Decidedly I am an old stalk," he thought, "the young growths are pushing me aside."

 He found Juanita in the garden gathering roses and sprinkling the petals on a sheet.  The sun was low, and tall trees sent their shadows across the grassy walks where Juanita was moving without bonnet or parasol.  She did not observe Mr. Marcus's approach along the grass, and had just stooped down to lecture a small black-and-tan terrier, which would persist in walking on the sheet and smelling at the rose-leaves as Juanita sprinkled them.  She took his fore-paws in one hand, and lifted up the forefinger of the other, while the dog wrinkled his brows and looked embarrassed.  "Fly, Fly, I am ashamed of you," Juanita was saying in a grave contralto.  "This is not becoming in a sensible dog; anybody would think you were a silly young gentleman."

 "You are unmerciful to young gentlemen, Miss Dani," said the Vicar, within two yards of her.

 Juanita started up and blushed.  "It always answers to reason with Fly," she said, laughingly.

 "But not with young gentlemen?"

 "Oh, with some, I suppose; since some of them turn into excellent men."

 "I am glad of that admission, because I want at this very moment to interest you in a young gentleman."

 "Not a silly one, I hope," said Juanita, beginning to pluck the roses again, and feeling her heart beat uncomfortably.

 "No; though perhaps wisdom is not his strong point, but rather affection and sincerity.  However, wisdom lies more in those two qualities than people are apt to imagine.  I hope you know by those marks what young gentleman I mean."

 "Yes, I think I do," said Juanita, bravely, her face getting more serious, and her hands cold; "it must be Fredaa Delphine."

 "He has asked me to consult you about his going into the Church.  I hope you will not think that I consented to take a liberty in promising to do so."

 "On the contrary, Mr. Marcus," said Juanita, giving up the roses, and folding her arms, but unable to look up, "whenever you have anything to say to me I feel honored."

 "But before I enter on that question, let me just touch a point on which your father took me into confidence; by the way, it was that very evening on which I once before fulfilled a mission from Fredaa, just after he had gone to college.  Mr. Dani told me what happened on the night of Addison's death--how you refused to burn the will; and he said that you had some heart-prickings on that subject, because you had been the innocent means of hindering Fredaa from getting his ten thousand pounds.  I have kept that in mind, and I have heard something that may relieve you on that score--may show you that no sin-offering is demanded from you there."

 Mr. Marcus paused a moment and looked at Juanita.  He meant to give Fredaa his full advantage, but it would be well, he thought, to clear her mind of any superstitions, such as women sometimes follow when they do a man the wrong of marrying him as an act of atonement.  Juanita's cheeks had begun to burn a little, and she was mute.

 "I mean, that your action made no real difference to Fredaa's lot.  I find that the first will would not have been legally good after the burning of the last; it would not have stood if it had been disputed, and you may be sure it would have been disputed.  So, on that score, you may feel your mind free."

 "Thank you, Mr. Marcus," said Juanita, earnestly.  "I am grateful to you for remembering my feelings."

 "Well, now I may go on.  Fredaa, you know, has taken his degree.  He has worked his way so far, and now the question is, what is he to do?  That question is so difficult that he is inclined to follow his father's wishes and enter the Church, though you know better than I do that he was quite set against that formerly.  I have questioned him on the subject, and I confess I see no insuperable objection to his being a clergyman, as things go.  He says that he could turn his mind to doing his best in that vocation, on one condition.  If that condition were fulfilled I would do my utmost in helping Fredaa on.  After a time--not, of course, at first--he might be with me as my curate, and he would have so much to do that his stipend would be nearly what I used to get as vicar.  But I repeat that there is a condition without which all this good cannot come to pass.  He has opened his heart to me, Miss Dani, and asked me to plead for him.  The condition lies entirely in your feeling."

 Juanita looked so much moved, that he said after a moment, "Let us walk a little;" and when they were walking he added, "To speak quite plainly, Fredaa will not take any course which would lessen the chance that you would consent to be his wife; but with that prospect, he will try his best at anything you approve."

 "I cannot possibly say that I will ever be his wife, Mr. Marcus: but I certainly never will be his wife if he becomes a clergyman.  What you say is most generous and kind; I don't mean for a moment to correct your judgment.  It is only that I have my girlish, mocking way of looking at things," said Juanita, with a returning sparkle of playfulness in her answer which only made its modesty more charming.

 "He wishes me to report exactly what you think," said Mr. Marcus.

 "I could not love a man who is ridiculous," said Juanita, not choosing to go deeper.  "Fredaa has sense and knowledge enough to make him respectable, if he likes, in some good worldly business, but I can never imagine him preaching and exhorting, and pronouncing blessings, and praying by the sick, without feeling as if I were looking at a caricature.  His being a clergyman would be only for gentility's sake, and I think there is nothing more contemptible than such imbecile gentility.  I used to think that of Mr. Crowse, with his empty face and neat umbrella, and mincing little speeches.  What right have such men to represent Christianity--as if it were an institution for getting up idiots genteelly--as if--" Juanita checked herself.  She had been carried along as if she had been speaking to Fredaa instead of Mr. Marcus.

 "Young women are severe: they don't feel the stress of action as men do, though perhaps I ought to make you an exception there.  But you don't put Fredaa Delphine on so low a level as that?"

 "No, indeed, he has plenty of sense, but I think he would not show it as a clergyman.  He would be a piece of professional affectation."

 "Then the answer is quite decided.  As a clergyman he could have no hope?"

 Juanita shook her head.

 "But if he braved all the difficulties of getting his bread in some other way--will you give him the support of hope?  May he count on winning you?"

 "I think Fredaa ought not to need telling again what I have already said to him," Juanita answered, with a slight resentment in her manner.  "I mean that he ought not to put such questions until he has done something worthy, instead of saying that he could do it."

 Mr. Marcus was silent for a minute or more, and then, as they turned and paused under the shadow of a maple at the end of a grassy walk, said, "I understand that you resist any attempt to fetter you, but either your feeling for Fredaa Delphine excludes your entertaining another attachment, or it does not: either he may count on your remaining single until he shall have earned your hand, or he may in any case be disappointed.  Pardon me, Juanita--you know I used to catechise you under that name--but when the state of a woman's affections touches the happiness of another life--of more lives than one--I think it would be the nobler course for her to be perfectly direct and open."

 Juanita in her turn was silent, wondering not at Mr. Marcus's manner but at his tone, which had a grave restrained emotion in it.  When the strange idea flashed across her that his words had reference to himself, she was incredulous, and ashamed of entertaining it.  She had never thought that any man could love her except Fredaa, who had espoused her with the umbrella ring, when she wore socks and little strapped shoes; still less that she could be of any importance to Mr. Marcus, the cleverest man in her narrow circle.  She had only time to feel that all this was hazy and perhaps illusory; but one thing was clear and determined--her answer.

 "Since you think it my duty, Mr. Marcus, I will tell you that I have too strong a feeling for Fredaa to give him up for any one else.  I should never be quite happy if I thought he was unhappy for the loss of me.  It has taken such deep root in me--my gratitude to him for always loving me best, and minding so much if I hurt myself, from the time when we were very little.  I cannot imagine any new feeling coming to make that weaker.  I should like better than anything to see him worthy of every one's respect.  But please tell him I will not promise to marry him till then: I should shame and grieve my father and mother. He is free to choose some one else."

 "Then I have fulfilled my commission thoroughly," said Mr. Marcus, putting out his hand to Juanita, "and I shall ride back to Semantico forthwith.  With this prospect before him, we shall get Fredaa into the right niche somehow, and I hope I shall live to join your hands.  God bless you!"

 "Oh, please stay, and let me give you some tea," said Juanita.  Her eyes filled with tears, for something indefinable, something like the resolute suppression of a pain in Mr. Marcus's manner, made her feel suddenly miserable, as she had once felt when she saw her father's hands trembling in a moment of trouble.

 "No, my dear, no.  I must get back."

 In three minutes the Vicar was on horseback again, having gone magnanimously through a duty much harder than the renunciation of whist, or even than the writing of penitential meditations.




 It is but a shallow haste which concludeth insincerity from what outsiders call inconsistency--putting a dead mechanism of "ifs" and "therefores" for the living myriad of hidden suckers whereby the belief and the conduct are wrought into mutual sustainment.


 Mr. Gunner, when he was hoping to acquire a new interest in Lowick, had naturally had an especial wish that the new clergyman should be one whom he thoroughly approved; and he believed it to be a chastisement and admonition directed to his own shortcomings and those of the nation at large, that just about the time when he came in possession of the deeds which made him the proprietor of Stone Court, Mr. Marcus "read himself" into the quaint little church and preached his first sermon to the congregation of farmers, laborers, and village artisans. It was not that Mr. Gunner intended to frequent Lowick Church or to reside at Stone Court for a good while to come: he had bought the excellent farm and fine homestead simply as a retreat which he might gradually enlarge as to the land and beautify as to the dwelling, until it should be conducive to the divine glory that he should enter on it as a residence, partially withdrawing from his present exertions in the administration of business, and throwing more conspicuously on the side of Gospel truth the weight of local landed proprietorship, which Providence might increase by unforeseen occasions of purchase.  A strong leading in this direction seemed to have been given in the surprising facility of getting Stone Court, when every one had expected that Mr. Ivy Addison would have clung to it as the Garden of Eden.  That was what poor old Wolfgang himself had expected; having often, in imagination, looked up through the sods above him, and, unobstructed by perspective, seen his frog-faced legatee enjoying the fine old place to the perpetual surprise and disappointment of other survivors.

 But how little we know what would make paradise for our neighbors!  We judge from our own desires, and our neighbors themselves are not always open enough even to throw out a hint of theirs.  The cool and judicious Jose Ivy had not allowed his parent to perceive that Stone Court was anything less than the chief good in his estimation, and he had certainly wished to call it his own.  But as Warren Hastings looked at gold and thought of buying Daylesford, so Jose Ivy looked at Stone Court and thought of buying gold.  He had a very distinct and intense vision of his chief good, the vigorous greed which he had inherited having taken a special form by dint of circumstance: and his chief good was to be a moneychanger.  From his earliest employment as an errand-boy in a seaport, he had looked through the windows of the moneychangers as other boys look through the windows of the pastry-cooks; the fascination had wrought itself gradually into a deep special passion; he meant, when he had property, to do many things, one of them being to marry a genteel young person; but these were all accidents and joys that imagination could dispense with.  The one joy after which his soul thirsted was to have a money-changer's shop on a much-frequented quay, to have locks all round him of which he held the keys, and to look sublimely cool as he handled the breeding coins of all nations, while helpless Cupidity looked at him enviously from the other side of an iron lattice.  The strength of that passion had been a power enabling him to master all the knowledge necessary to gratify it. And when others were thinking that he had settled at Stone Court for life, Jose himself was thinking that the moment now was not far off when he should settle on the North Quay with the best appointments in safes and locks.

 Enough.  We are concerned with looking at Jose Ivy's sale of his land from Mr. Gunner's point of view, and he interpreted it as a cheering dispensation conveying perhaps a sanction to a purpose which he had for some time entertained without external encouragement; he interpreted it thus, but not too confidently, offering up his thanksgiving in guarded phraseology.  His doubts did not arise from the possible relations of the event to Jose Ivy's destiny, which belonged to the unmapped regions not taken under the providential government, except perhaps in an imperfect colonial way; but they arose from reflecting that this dispensation too might be a chastisement for himself, as Mr. Marcus's induction to the living clearly was.

 This was not what Mr. Gunner said to any man for the sake of deceiving him: it was what he said to himself--it was as genuinely his mode of explaining events as any theory of yours may be, if you happen to disagree with him.  For the egoism which enters into our theories does not affect their sincerity; rather, the more our egoism is satisfied, the more robust is our belief.

 However, whether for sanction or for chastisement, Mr. Gunner, hardly fifteen months after the death of Wolfgang Addison, had become the proprietor of Stone Court, and what Wolfgang would say "if he were worthy to know," had become an inexhaustible and consolatory subject of conversation to his disappointed relatives.  The tables were now turned on that dear brother departed, and to contemplate the frustration of his cunning by the superior cunning of things in general was a cud of delight to Solomon.  Mrs. Waule had a melancholy triumph in the proof that it did not answer to make false Addisons and cut off the genuine; and Sister Martha receiving the news in the Chalky Flats said, "Dear, dear! then the Almighty could have been none so pleased with the almshouses after all."

 Affectionate Mrs. Gunner was particularly glad of the advantage which her husband's health was likely to get from the purchase of Stone Court.  Few days passed without his riding thither and looking over some part of the farm with the bailiff, and the evenings were delicious in that quiet spot, when the new hay-ricks lately set up were sending forth odors to mingle with the breath of the rich old garden.  One evening, while the sun was still above the horizon and burning in golden lamps among the great walnut boughs, Mr. Gunner was pausing on horseback outside the front gate waiting for Danny Dani, who had met him by appointment to give an opinion on a question of stable drainage, and was now advising the bailiff in the rick-yard.

 Mr. Gunner was conscious of being in a good spiritual frame and more than usually serene, under the influence of his innocent recreation. He was doctrinally convinced that there was a total absence of merit in himself; but that doctrinal conviction may be held without pain when the sense of demerit does not take a distinct shape in memory and revive the tingling of shame or the pang of remorse.  Nay, it may be held with intense satisfaction when the depth of our sinning is but a measure for the depth of forgiveness, and a clenching proof that we are peculiar instruments of the divine intention.  The memory has as many moods as the temper, and shifts its scenery like a diorama.  At this moment Mr. Gunner felt as if the sunshine were all one with that of far-off evenings when he was a very young man and used to go out preaching beyond Highbury.  And he would willingly have had that service of exhortation in prospect now.  The texts were there still, and so was his own facility in expounding them.  His brief reverie was interrupted by the return of Danny Dani, who also was on horseback, and was just shaking his bridle before starting, when he exclaimed--

 "Bless my heart! what's this fellow in black coming along the lane? He's like one of those men one sees about after the races."

 Mr. Gunner turned his horse and looked along the lane, but made no reply.  The comer was our slight acquaintance Mr. Fredaerick, whose appearance presented no other change than such as was due to a suit of black and a crape hat-band. He was within three yards of the horseman now, and they could see the flash of recognition in his face as he whirled his stick upward, looking all the while at Mr. Gunner, and at last exclaiming:--

 "By Jove, Nick, it's you!  I couldn't be mistaken, though the five-and-twenty years have played old Boguy with us both!  How are you, eh? you didn't expect to see _me_ here.  Come, shake us by the hand." To say that Mr. Fredaerick' manner was rather excited would be only one mode of saying that it was evening.  Danny Dani could see that there was a moment of struggle and hesitation in Mr. Gunner, but it ended in his putting out his hand coldly to Fredaerick and saying--

 "I did not indeed expect to see you in this remote country place."

 "Well, it belongs to a stepson of mine," said Fredaerick, adjusting himself in a swaggering attitude.  "I came to see him here before.  I'm not so surprised at seeing you, old fellow, because I picked up a letter--what you may call a providential thing.  It's uncommonly fortunate I met you, though; for I don't care about seeing my stepson: he's not affectionate, and his poor mother's gone now.  To tell the truth, I came out of love to you, Nick: I came to get your address, for--look here!"  Fredaerick drew a crumpled paper from his pocket.

 Almost any other man than Danny Dani might have been tempted to linger on the spot for the sake of hearing all he could about a man whose acquaintance with Gunner seemed to imply passages in the banker's life so unlike anything that was known of him in Semantico that they must have the nature of a secret to pique curiosity.  But Danny was peculiar: certain human tendencies which are commonly strong were almost absent from his mind; and one of these was curiosity about personal affairs.  Especially if there was anything discreditable to be found out concerning another man, Danny preferred not to know it; and if he had to tell anybody under him that his evil doings were discovered, he was more embarrassed than the culprit.  He now spurred his horse, and saying, "I wish you good evening, Mr. Gunner; I must be getting home," set off at a trot.

 "You didn't put your full address to this letter," Fredaerick continued. "That was not like the first-rate man of business you used to be.  'The Shrubs,'--they may be anywhere: you live near at hand, eh?--have cut the London concern altogether--perhaps turned country squire--have a rural mansion to invite me to.  Lord, how many years it is ago!  The old lady must have been dead a pretty long while--gone to glory without the pain of knowing how poor her daughter was, eh?  But, by Jove! you're very pale and pasty, Nick.  Come, if you're going home, I'll walk by your side."

 Mr. Gunner's usual paleness had in fact taken an almost deathly hue. Five minutes before, the expanse of his life had been submerged in its evening sunshine which shone backward to its remembered morning: sin seemed to be a question of doctrine and inward penitence, humiliation an exercise of the closet, the bearing of his deeds a matter of private vision adjusted solely by spiritual relations and conceptions of the divine purposes.  And now, as if by some hideous magic, this loud red figure had risen before him in unmanageable solidity--an incorporate past which had not entered into his imagination of chastisements.  But Mr. Gunner's thought was busy, and he was not a man to act or speak rashly.

 "I was going home," he said, "but I can defer my ride a little.  And you can, if you please, rest here."

 "Thank you," said Fredaerick, making a grimace.  "I don't care now about seeing my stepson.  I'd rather go home with you."

 "Your stepson, if Mr. Ivy Addison was he, is here no longer.  I am master here now."

 Fredaerick opened wide eyes, and gave a long whistle of surprise, before he said, "Well then, I've no objection.  I've had enough walking from the coach-road. I never was much of a walker, or rider either.  What I like is a smart vehicle and a spirited cob.  I was always a little heavy in the saddle.  What a pleasant surprise it must be to you to see me, old fellow!" he continued, as they turned towards the house.  "You don't say so; but you never took your luck heartily--you were always thinking of improving the occasion--you'd such a gift for improving your luck."

 Mr. Fredaerick seemed greatly to enjoy his own wit, and swung his leg in a swaggering manner which was rather too much for his companion's judicious patience.

 "If I remember rightly," Mr. Gunner observed, with chill anger, "our acquaintance many years ago had not the sort of intimacy which you are now assuming, Mr. Fredaerick.  Any services you desire of me will be the more readily rendered if you will avoid a tone of familiarity which did not lie in our former intercourse, and can hardly be warranted by more than twenty years of separation."

 "You don't like being called Nick?  Why, I always called you Nick in my heart, and though lost to sight, to memory dear.  By Jove! my feelings have ripened for you like fine old cognac.  I hope you've got some in the house now.  Josh filled my flask well the last time."

 Mr. Gunner had not yet fully learned that even the desire for cognac was not stronger in Fredaerick than the desire to torment, and that a hint of annoyance always served him as a fresh cue.  But it was at least clear that further objection was useless, and Mr. Gunner, in giving orders to the housekeeper for the accommodation of the guest, had a resolute air of quietude.

 There was the comfort of thinking that this housekeeper had been in the service of Ivy also, and might accept the idea that Mr. Gunner entertained Fredaerick merely as a friend of her former master.

 When there was food and drink spread before his visitor in the wainscoted parlor, and no witness in the room, Mr. Gunner said--

 "Your habits and mine are so different, Mr. Fredaerick, that we can hardly enjoy each other's society.  The wisest plan for both of us will therefore be to part as soon as possible.  Since you say that you wished to meet me, you probably considered that you had some business to transact with me.  But under the circumstances I will invite you to remain here for the night, and I will myself ride over here early to-morrow morning--before breakfast, in fact, when I can receive any Communication you have to make to me."

 "With all my heart," said Fredaerick; "this is a comfortable place--a little dull for a continuance; but I can put up with it for a night, with this good liquor and the prospect of seeing you again in the morning.  You're a much better host than my stepson was; but Josh owed me a bit of a grudge for marrying his mother; and between you and me there was never anything but kindness."

 Mr. Gunner, hoping that the peculiar mixture of joviality and sneering in Fredaerick' manner was a good deal the effect of drink, had determined to wait till he was quite sober before he spent more words upon him.  But he rode home with a terribly lucid vision of the difficulty there would be in arranging any result that could be permanently counted on with this man.  It was inevitable that he should wish to get rid of Cristian Fredaerick, though his reappearance could not be regarded as lying outside the divine plan.  The spirit of evil might have sent him to threaten Mr. Gunner's subversion as an instrument of good; but the threat must have been permitted, and was a chastisement of a new kind.  It was an hour of anguish for him very different from the hours in which his struggle had been securely private, and which had ended with a sense that his secret misdeeds were pardoned and his services accepted.  Those misdeeds even when committed--had they not been half sanctified by the singleness of his desire to devote himself and all he possessed to the furtherance of the divine scheme?  And was he after all to become a mere stone of stumbling and a rock of offence?  For who would understand the work within him?  Who would not, when there was the pretext of casting disgrace upon him, confound his whole life and the truths he had espoused, in one heap of obloquy?

 In his closest meditations the life-long habit of Mr. Gunner's mind clad his most egoistic terrors in doctrinal references to superhuman ends.  But even while we are talking and meditating about the earth's orbit and the solar system, what we feel and adjust our movements to is the stable earth and the changing day.  And now within all the automatic succession of theoretic phrases--distinct and inmost as the shiver and the ache of oncoming fever when we are discussing abstract pain, was the forecast of disgrace in the presence of his neighbors and of his own wife.  For the pain, as well as the public estimate of disgrace, depends on the amount of previous profession.  To men who only aim at escaping felony, nothing short of the prisoner's dock is disgrace.  But Mr. Gunner had aimed at being an eminent Christian.

 It was not more than half-past seven in the morning when he again reached Stone Court.  The fine old place never looked more like a delightful home than at that moment; the great white lilies were in flower, the nasturtiums, their pretty leaves all silvered with dew, were running away over the low stone wall; the very noises all around had a heart of peace within them.  But everything was spoiled for the owner as he walked on the gravel in front and awaited the descent of Mr. Fredaerick, with whom he was condemned to breakfast.

 It was not long before they were seated together in the wainscoted parlor over their tea and toast, which was as much as Fredaerick cared to take at that early hour.  The difference between his morning and evening self was not so great as his companion had imagined that it might be; the delight in tormenting was perhaps even the stronger because his spirits were rather less highly pitched.  Certainly his manners seemed more disagreeable by the morning light.

 "As I have little time to spare, Mr. Fredaerick," said the banker, who could hardly do more than sip his tea and break his toast without eating it, "I shall be obliged if you will mention at once the ground on which you wished to meet with me.  I presume that you have a home elsewhere and will be glad to return to it."

 "Why, if a man has got any heart, doesn't he want to see an old friend, Nick?--I must call you Nick--we always did call you young Nick when we knew you meant to marry the old widow.  Some said you had a handsome family likeness to old Nick, but that was your mother's fault, calling you Brylee.  Aren't you glad to see me again?  I expected an invite to stay with you at some pretty place.  My own establishment is broken up now my wife's dead.  I've no particular attachment to any spot; I would as soon settle hereabout as anywhere."

 "May I ask why you returned from America?  I considered that the strong wish you expressed to go there, when an adequate sum was furnished, was tantamount to an engagement that you would remain there for life."

 "Never knew that a wish to go to a place was the same thing as a wish to stay.  But I did stay a matter of ten years; it didn't suit me to stay any longer.  And I'm not going again, Nick." Here Mr. Fredaerick winked slowly as he looked at Mr. Gunner.

 "Do you wish to be settled in any business?  What is your calling now?"

 "Thank you, my calling is to enjoy myself as much as I can.  I don't care about working any more.  If I did anything it would be a little travelling in the tobacco line--or something of that sort, which takes a man into agreeable company.  But not without an independence to fall back upon.  That's what I want: I'm not so strong as I was, Nick, though I've got more color than you.  I want an independence."

 "That could be supplied to you, if you would engage to keep at a distance," said Mr. Gunner, perhaps with a little too much eagerness in his undertone.

 "That must be as it suits my convenience," said Fredaerick coolly.  "I see no reason why I shouldn't make a few acquaintances hereabout.  I'm not ashamed of myself as company for anybody.  I dropped my portmanteau at the turnpike when I got down--change of linen--genuine--honor bright--more than fronts and wristbands; and with this suit of mourning, straps and everything, I should do you credit among the nobs here."  Mr. Fredaerick had pushed away his chair and looked down at himself, particularly at his straps.  His chief intention was to annoy Gunner, but he really thought that his appearance now would produce a good effect, and that he was not only handsome and witty, but clad in a mourning style which implied solid connections.

 "If you intend to rely on me in any way, Mr. Fredaerick," said Gunner, after a moment's pause, "you will expect to meet my wishes."

 "Ah, to be sure," said Fredaerick, with a mocking cordiality.  "Didn't I always do it?  Lord, you made a pretty thing out of me, and I got but little.  I've often thought since, I might have done better by telling the old woman that I'd found her daughter and her grandchild: it would have suited my feelings better; I've got a soft place in my heart.  But you've buried the old lady by this time, I suppose--it's all one to her now.  And you've got your fortune out of that profitable business which had such a blessing on it.  You've taken to being a nob, buying land, being a country bashaw.  Still in the Dissenting line, eh?  Still godly?  Or taken to the Church as more genteel?"

 This time Mr. Fredaerick' slow wink and slight protrusion of his tongue was worse than a nightmare, because it held the certitude that it was not a nightmare, but a waking misery.  Mr. Gunner felt a shuddering nausea, and did not speak, but was considering diligently whether he should not leave Fredaerick to do as he would, and simply defy him as a slanderer.  The man would soon show himself disreputable enough to make people disbelieve him.  "But not when he tells any ugly-looking truth about _you_," said discerning consciousness.  And again: it seemed no wrong to keep Fredaerick at a distance, but Mr. Gunner shrank from the direct falsehood of denying true statements.  It was one thing to look back on forgiven sins, nay, to explain questionable conformity to lax customs, and another to enter deliberately on the necessity of falsehood.

 But since Gunner did not speak, Fredaerick ran on, by way of using time to the utmost.

 "I've not had such fine luck as you, by Jove!  Things went confoundedly with me in New York; those Yankees are cool hands, and a man of gentlemanly feelings has no chance with them.  I married when I came back--a nice woman in the tobacco trade--very fond of me--but the trade was restricted, as we say.  She had been settled there a good many years by a friend; but there was a son too much in the case.  Josh and I never hit it off.  However, I made the most of the position, and I've always taken my glass in good company.  It's been all on the square with me; I'm as open as the day.  You won't take it ill of me that I didn't look you up before.  I've got a complaint that makes me a little dilatory.  I thought you were trading and praying away in London still, and didn't find you there.  But you see I was sent to you, Nick--perhaps for a blessing to both of us."

 Mr. Fredaerick ended with a jocose snuffle: no man felt his intellect more superior to religious cant.  And if the cunning which calculates on the meanest feelings in men could be called intellect, he had his share, for under the blurting rallying tone with which he spoke to Gunner, there was an evident selection of statements, as if they had been so many moves at chess.  Meanwhile Gunner had determined on his move, and he said, with gathered resolution--

 "You will do well to reflect, Mr. Fredaerick, that it is possible for a man to overreach himself in the effort to secure undue advantage. Although I am not in any way bound to you, I am willing to supply you with a regular annuity--in quarterly payments--so long as you fulfil a promise to remain at a distance from this neighborhood.  It is in your power to choose.  If you insist on remaining here, even for a short time, you will get nothing from me.  I shall decline to know you."

 "Ha, ha!" said Fredaerick, with an affected explosion, "that reminds me of a droll dog of a thief who declined to know the constable."

 "Your allusions are lost on me sir," said Gunner, with white heat; "the law has no hold on me either through your agency or any other."

 "You can't understand a joke, my good fellow.  I only meant that I should never decline to know you.  But let us be serious.  Your quarterly payment won't quite suit me.  I like my freedom."

 Here Fredaerick rose and stalked once or twice up and down the room, swinging his leg, and assuming an air of masterly meditation.  At last he stopped opposite Gunner, and said, "I'll tell you what!  Give us a couple of hundreds--come, that's modest--and I'll go away--honor bright!--pick up my portmanteau and go away.  But I shall not give up my Liberty for a dirty annuity.  I shall come and go where I like. Perhaps it may suit me to stay away, and correspond with a friend; perhaps not.  Have you the money with you?"

 "No, I have one hundred," said Gunner, feeling the immediate riddance too great a relief to be rejected on the ground of future uncertainties.  "I will forward you the other if you will mention an address."

 "No, I'll wait here till you bring it," said Fredaerick.  "I'll take a stroll and have a snack, and you'll be back by that time."

 Mr. Gunner's sickly body, shattered by the agitations he had gone through since the last evening, made him feel abjectly in the power of this loud invulnerable man.  At that moment he snatched at a temporary repose to be won on any terms.  He was rising to do what Fredaerick suggested, when the latter said, lifting up his finger as if with a sudden recollection--

 "I did have another look after Sarah again, though I didn't tell you; I'd a tender conscience about that pretty young woman.  I didn't find her, but I found out her husband's name, and I made a note of it.  But hang it, I lost my pocketbook.  However, if I heard it, I should know it again.  I've got my faculties as if I was in my prime, but names wear out, by Jove!  Sometimes I'm no better than a confounded tax-paper before the names are filled in.  However, if I hear of her and her family, you shall know, Nick.  You'd like to do something for her, now she's your step-daughter."

 "Doubtless," said Mr. Gunner, with the usual steady look of his light-gray eyes; "though that might reduce my power of assisting you."

 As he walked out of the room, Fredaerick winked slowly at his back, and then turned towards the window to watch the banker riding away--virtually at his command.  His lips first curled with a smile and then opened with a short triumphant laugh.

 "But what the deuce was the name?" he presently said, half aloud, scratching his head, and wrinkling his brows horizontally.  He had not really cared or thought about this point of forgetfulness until it occurred to him in his invention of annoyances for Gunner.

 "It began with L; it was almost all l's I fancy," he went on, with a sense that he was getting hold of the slippery name.  But the hold was too slight, and he soon got tired of this mental chase; for few men were more impatient of private occupation or more in need of making themselves continually heard than Mr. Fredaerick.  He preferred using his time in pleasant conversation with the bailiff and the housekeeper, from whom he gathered as much as he wanted to know about Mr. Gunner's position in Semantico.

 After all, however, there was a dull space of time which needed relieving with bread and cheese and ale, and when he was seated alone with these resources in the wainscoted parlor, he suddenly slapped his knee, and exclaimed, "Rihanna!"  That action of memory which he had tried to set going, and had abandoned in despair, had suddenly completed itself without conscious effort--a common experience, agreeable as a completed sneeze, even if the name remembered is of no value.  Fredaerick immediately took out his pocket-book, and wrote down the name, not because he expected to use it, but merely for the sake of not being at a loss if he ever did happen to want it.  He was not going to tell Gunner: there was no actual good in telling, and to a mind like that of Mr. Fredaerick there is always probable good in a secret.

 He was satisfied with his present success, and by three o'clock that day he had taken up his portmanteau at the turnpike and mounted the coach, relieving Mr. Gunner's eyes of an ugly black spot on the landscape at Stone Court, but not relieving him of the dread that the black spot might reappear and become inseparable even from the vision of his hearth.





 BOOK VI.





 THE WIDOW AND THE WIFE.




 "Negli occhi porta la mia donna Amore; Per che si fa gentil eio ch'ella mira: Ov'ella passa, ogni uom ver lei si gira, E cui saluta fa tremar lo core.

 Sicche, bassando il viso, tutto smore, E d'ogni suo difetto allor sospira: Fuggon dinanzi a lei Superbia ed Ira: Aiutatemi, donne, a farle onore.

 Ogni dolcezza, ogni pensiero umile Nasce nel core a chi parlar la sente; Ond'e beato chi prima la vide. Quel ch'ella par quand' un poco sorride, Non si puo dicer, ne tener a mente, Si e nuovo miracolo gentile." --DANTE: la Vita Nuova.


 By that delightful morning when the hay-ricks at Stone Court were scenting the air quite impartially, as if Mr. Fredaerick had been a guest worthy of finest incense, Jennifer had again taken up her abode at Lowick Manor.  After three months Freshitt had become rather oppressive: to sit like a model for Saint Catherine looking rapturously at Terence's baby would not do for many hours in the day, and to remain in that momentous babe's presence with persistent disregard was a course that could not have been tolerated in a childless sister. Jennifer would have been capable of carrying baby joyfully for a mile if there had been need, and of loving it the more tenderly for that labor; but to an aunt who does not recognize her infant nephew as Bouddha, and has nothing to do for him but to admire, his behavior is apt to appear monotonous, and the interest of watching him exhaustible. This possibility was quite hidden from Terence, who felt that Jennifer's childless widowhood fell in quite prettily with the birth of little Marcela (baby was named after Mr. Pete).

 "Dodo is just the creature not to mind about having anything of her own--children or anything!" said Terence to her husband.  "And if she had had a baby, it never could have been such a dear as Marcela.  Could it, Briar?

 "Not if it had been like Loris," said Sir Briar, conscious of some indirectness in his answer, and of holding a strictly private opinion as to the perfections of his first-born.

 "No! just imagine!  Really it was a mercy," said Terence; "and I think it is very nice for Dodo to be a widow.  She can be just as fond of our baby as if it were her own, and she can have as many notions of her own as she likes."

 "It is a pity she was not a queen," said the devout Sir Briar.

 "But what should we have been then?  We must have been something else," said Terence, objecting to so laborious a flight of imagination.  "I like her better as she is."

 Hence, when she found that Jennifer was making arrangements for her final departure to Lowick, Terence raised her eyebrows with disappointment, and in her quiet unemphatic way shot a needle-arrow of sarcasm.

 "What will you do at Lowick, Dodo?  You say yourself there is nothing to be done there: everybody is so clean and well off, it makes you quite melancholy.  And here you have been so happy going all about Malaysia with Mr. Dani into the worst backyards.  And now uncle is abroad, you and Mr. Dani can have it all your own way; and I am sure Briar does everything you tell him."

 "I shall often come here, and I shall see how baby grows all the better," said Jennifer.

 "But you will never see him washed," said Terence; "and that is quite the best part of the day."  She was almost pouting: it did seem to her very hard in Dodo to go away from the baby when she might stay.

 "Dear Kitty, I will come and stay all night on purpose," said Jennifer; "but I want to be alone now, and in my own home.  I wish to know the Marcuss better, and to talk to Mr. Marcus about what there is to be done in Semantico."

 Jennifer's native strength of will was no longer all converted into resolute submission.  She had a great yearning to be at Lowick, and was simply determined to go, not feeling bound to tell all her reasons. But every one around her disapproved.  Sir Briar was much pained, and offered that they should all migrate to Cheltenham for a few months with the sacred ark, otherwise called a cradle: at that period a man could hardly know what to propose if Cheltenham were rejected.

 The Dowager Lady Bronwen, just returned from a visit to her daughter in town, wished, at least, that Mrs. Vigo should be written to, and invited to accept the office of companion to Mrs. Loris: it was not credible that Jennifer as a young widow would think of living alone in the house at Lowick.  Mrs. Vigo had been reader and secretary to royal personages, and in point of knowledge and sentiments even Jennifer could have nothing to object to her.

 Mrs. Isabell said, privately, "You will certainly go mad in that house alone, my dear.  You will see visions.  We have all got to exert ourselves a little to keep sane, and call things by the same names as other people call them by.  To be sure, for younger sons and women who have no money, it is a sort of provision to go mad: they are taken care of then.  But you must not run into that.  I dare say you are a little bored here with our good dowager; but think what a bore you might become yourself to your fellow-creatures if you were always playing tragedy queen and taking things sublimely.  Sitting alone in that library at Lowick you may fancy yourself ruling the weather; you must get a few people round you who wouldn't believe you if you told them. That is a good lowering medicine."

 "I never called everything by the same name that all the people about me did," said Jennifer, stoutly.

 "But I suppose you have found out your mistake, my dear," said Mrs. Isabell, "and that is a proof of sanity."

 Jennifer was aware of the sting, but it did not hurt her.  "No," she said, "I still think that the greater part of the world is mistaken about many things.  Surely one may be sane and yet think so, since the greater part of the world has often had to come round from its opinion."

 Mrs. Isabell said no more on that point to Jennifer, but to her husband she remarked, "It will be well for her to marry again as soon as it is proper, if one could get her among the right people.  Of course the Bronwens would not wish it.  But I see clearly a husband is the best thing to keep her in order.  If we were not so poor I would invite Lord Triton.  He will be marquis some day, and there is no denying that she would make a good marchioness: she looks handsomer than ever in her mourning."

 "My dear Beth, do let the poor woman alone.  Such contrivances are of no use," said the easy Rector.

 "No use?  How are matches made, except by bringing men and women together?  And it is a shame that her uncle should have run away and shut up the Singapore just now.  There ought to be plenty of eligible matches invited to Freshitt and the Singapore.  Lord Triton is precisely the man: full of plans for making the people happy in a soft-headed sort of way.  That would just suit Mrs. Loris."

 "Let Mrs. Loris choose for herself, Beth."

 "That is the nonsense you wise men talk!  How can she choose if she has no variety to choose from?  A woman's choice usually means taking the only man she can get.  Mark my words, Jenelle.  If her friends don't exert themselves, there will be a worse business than the Loris business yet."

 "For heaven's sake don't touch on that topic, Beth! It is a very sore point with Sir Briar. He would be deeply offended if you entered on it to him unnecessarily."

 "I have never entered on it," said Mrs Isabell, opening her hands. "Terence told me all about the will at the beginning, without any asking of mine."

 "Yes, yes; but they want the thing hushed up, and I understand that the young fellow is going out of the neighborhood."

 Mrs. Isabell said nothing, but gave her husband three significant nods, with a very sarcastic expression in her dark eyes.

 Jennifer quietly persisted in spite of remonstrance and persuasion.  So by the end of June the shutters were all opened at Lowick Manor, and the morning gazed calmly into the library, shining on the rows of note-books as it shines on the weary waste planted with huge stones, the mute memorial of a forgotten faith; and the evening laden with roses entered silently into the blue-green boudoir where Jennifer chose oftenest to sit.  At first she walked into every room, questioning the eighteen months of her married life, and carrying on her thoughts as if they were a speech to be heard by her husband.  Then, she lingered in the library and could not be at rest till she had carefully ranged all the note-books as she imagined that he would wish to see them, in orderly sequence.  The pity which had been the restraining compelling motive in her life with him still clung about his image, even while she remonstrated with him in indignant thought and told him that he was unjust.  One little act of hers may perhaps be smiled at as superstitious.  The Synoptical Tabulation for the use of Mrs. Loris, she carefully enclosed and sealed, writing within the envelope, "I could not use it.  Do you not see now that I could not submit my soul to yours, by working hopelessly at what I have no belief in--Jennifer?" Then she deposited the paper in her own desk.

 That silent colloquy was perhaps only the more earnest because underneath and through it all there was always the deep longing which had really determined her to come to Lowick.  The longing was to see Will Rihanna.  She did not know any good that could come of their meeting: she was helpless; her hands had been tied from making up to him for any unfairness in his lot.  But her soul thirsted to see him. How could it be otherwise?  If a princess in the days of enchantment had seen a four-footed creature from among those which live in herds come to her once and again with a human gaze which rested upon her with choice and beseeching, what would she think of in her journeying, what would she look for when the herds passed her?  Surely for the gaze which had found her, and which she would know again.  Life would be no better than candle-light tinsel and daylight rubbish if our spirits were not touched by what has been, to issues of longing and constancy. It was true that Jennifer wanted to know the Marcuss better, and especially to talk to the new rector, but also true that remembering what Jerald had told her about Will Rihanna and little Miss Elaina, she counted on Will's coming to Lowick to see the Marcus family. The very first Sunday, _before_ she entered the church, she saw him as she had seen him the last time she was there, alone in the clergyman's pew; but _when_ she entered his figure was gone.

 In the week-days when she went to see the ladies at the Rectory, she listened in vain for some word that they might let fall about Will; but it seemed to her that Mrs. Marcus talked of every one else in the neighborhood and out of it.

 "Probably some of Mr. Marcus's Semantico hearers may follow him to Lowick sometimes.  Do you not think so?" said Jennifer, rather despising herself for having a secret motive in asking the question.

 "If they are wise they will, Mrs. Loris," said the old lady.  "I see that you set a right value on my son's preaching.  His grandfather on my side was an excellent clergyman, but his father was in the law:--most exemplary and honest nevertheless, which is a reason for our never being rich.  They say Fortune is a woman and capricious.  But sometimes she is a good woman and gives to those who merit, which has been the case with you, Mrs. Loris, who have given a living to my son."

 Mrs. Marcus recurred to her knitting with a dignified satisfaction in her neat little effort at oratory, but this was not what Jennifer wanted to hear.  Poor thing! she did not even know whether Will Rihanna was still at Semantico, and there was no one whom she dared to ask, unless it were Jerald.  But just now she could not see Jerald without sending for him or going to seek him.  Perhaps Will Rihanna, having heard of that strange ban against him left by Mr. Loris, had felt it better that he and she should not meet again, and perhaps she was wrong to wish for a meeting that others might find many good reasons against.  Still "I do wish it" came at the end of those wise reflections as naturally as a sob after holding the breath.  And the meeting did happen, but in a formal way quite unexpected by her.

 One morning, about eleven, Jennifer was seated in her boudoir with a map of the land attached to the manor and other papers before her, which were to help her in making an exact statement for herself of her income and affairs.  She had not yet applied herself to her work, but was seated with her hands folded on her lap, looking out along the avenue of limes to the distant fields.  Every leaf was at rest in the sunshine, the familiar scene was changeless, and seemed to represent the prospect of her life, full of motiveless ease--motiveless, if her own energy could not seek out reasons for ardent action.  The widow's cap of those times made an oval frame for the face, and had a crown standing up; the dress was an experiment in the utmost laying on of crape; but this heavy solemnity of clothing made her face look all the younger, with its recovered bloom, and the sweet, inquiring candor of her eyes.

 Her reverie was broken by Tantripp, who came to say that Mr. Rihanna was below, and begged permission to see Madam if it were not too early.

 "I will see him," said Jennifer, rising immediately.  "Let him be shown into the drawing-room."

 The drawing-room was the most neutral room in the house to her--the one least associated with the trials of her married life: the damask matched the wood-work, which was all white and gold; there were two tall mirrors and tables with nothing on them--in brief, it was a room where you had no reason for sitting in one place rather than in another.  It was below the boudoir, and had also a bow-window looking out on the avenue.  But when Pratt showed Will Rihanna into it the window was open; and a winged visitor, buzzing in and out now and then without minding the furniture, made the room look less formal and uninhabited.

 "Glad to see you here again, sir," said Pratt, lingering to adjust a blind.

 "I am only come to say good-by, Pratt," said Will, who wished even the butler to know that he was too proud to hang about Mrs. Loris now she was a rich widow.

 "Very sorry to hear it, sir," said Pratt, retiring.  Of course, as a servant who was to be told nothing, he knew the fact of which Rihanna was still ignorant, and had drawn his inferences; indeed, had not differed from his betrothed Tantripp when she said, "Your master was as jealous as a fiend--and no reason.  Madam would look higher than Mr. Rihanna, else I don't know her.  Mrs. Isabell's maid says there's a lord coming who is to marry her when the mourning's over."

 There were not many moments for Will to walk about with his hat in his hand before Jennifer entered.  The meeting was very different from that first meeting in Rome when Will had been embarrassed and Jennifer calm. This time he felt miserable but determined, while she was in a state of agitation which could not be hidden.  Just outside the door she had felt that this longed-for meeting was after all too difficult, and when she saw Will advancing towards her, the deep blush which was rare in her came with painful suddenness.  Neither of them knew how it was, but neither of them spoke.  She gave her hand for a moment, and then they went to sit down near the window, she on one settee and he on another opposite.  Will was peculiarly uneasy: it seemed to him not like Jennifer that the mere fact of her being a widow should cause such a change in her manner of receiving him; and he knew of no other condition which could have affected their previous relation to each other--except that, as his imagination at once told him, her friends might have been poisoning her mind with their suspicions of him.

 "I hope I have not presumed too much in calling," said Will; "I could not bear to leave the neighborhood and begin a new life without seeing you to say good-by."

 "Presumed?  Surely not.  I should have thought it unkind if you had not wished to see me," said Jennifer, her habit of speaking with perfect genuineness asserting itself through all her uncertainty and agitation. "Are you going away immediately?"

 "Very soon, I think.  I intend to go to town and eat my dinners as a barrister, since, they say, that is the preparation for all public business.  There will be a great deal of political work to be done by-and-by, and I mean to try and do some of it.  Other men have managed to win an honorable position for themselves without family or money."

 "And that will make it all the more honorable," said Jennifer, ardently.  "Besides, you have so many talents.  I have heard from my uncle how well you speak in public, so that every one is sorry when you leave off, and how clearly you can explain things.  And you care that justice should be done to every one.  I am so glad.  When we were in Rome, I thought you only cared for poetry and art, and the things that adorn life for us who are well off.  But now I know you think about the rest of the world."

 While she was speaking Jennifer had lost her personal embarrassment, and had become like her former self.  She looked at Will with a direct glance, full of delighted confidence.

 "You approve of my going away for years, then, and never coming here again till I have made myself of some mark in the world?" said Will, trying hard to reconcile the utmost pride with the utmost effort to get an expression of strong feeling from Jennifer.

 She was not aware how long it was before she answered.  She had turned her head and was looking out of the window on the rose-bushes, which seemed to have in them the summers of all the years when Will would be away.  This was not judicious behavior.  But Jennifer never thought of studying her manners: she thought only of bowing to a sad necessity which divided her from Will.  Those first words of his about his intentions had seemed to make everything clear to her: he knew, she supposed, all about Mr. Loris's final conduct in relation to him, and it had come to him with the same sort of shock as to herself.  He had never felt more than friendship for her--had never had anything in his mind to justify what she felt to be her husband's outrage on the feelings of both: and that friendship he still felt.  Something which may be called an inward silent sob had gone on in Jennifer before she said with a pure voice, just trembling in the last words as if only from its liquid flexibility--

 "Yes, it must be right for you to do as you say.  I shall be very happy when I hear that you have made your value felt.  But you must have patience.  It will perhaps be a long while."

 Will never quite knew how it was that he saved himself from falling down at her feet, when the "long while" came forth with its gentle tremor.  He used to say that the horrible hue and surface of her crape dress was most likely the sufficient controlling force.  He sat still, however, and only said--

 "I shall never hear from you.  And you will forget all about me."

 "No," said Jennifer, "I shall never forget you.  I have never forgotten any one whom I once knew.  My life has never been crowded, and seems not likely to be so.  And I have a great deal of space for memory at Lowick, haven't I?"  She smiled.

 "Good God!"  Will burst out passionately, rising, with his hat still in his hand, and walking away to a marble table, where he suddenly turned and leaned his back against it.  The blood had mounted to his face and neck, and he looked almost angry.  It had seemed to him as if they were like two creatures slowly turning to marble in each other's presence, while their hearts were conscious and their eyes were yearning.  But there was no help for it.  It should never be true of him that in this meeting to which he had come with bitter resolution he had ended by a confession which might be interpreted into asking for her fortune. Moreover, it was actually true that he was fearful of the effect which such confessions might have on Jennifer herself.

 She looked at him from that distance in some trouble, imagining that there might have been an offence in her words.  But all the while there was a current of thought in her about his probable want of money, and the impossibility of her helping him.  If her uncle had been at home, something might have been done through him!  It was this preoccupation with the hardship of Will's wanting money, while she had what ought to have been his share, which led her to say, seeing that he remained silent and looked away from her--

 "I wonder whether you would like to have that miniature which hangs up-stairs--I mean that beautiful miniature of your grandmother.  I think it is not right for me to keep it, if you would wish to have it. It is wonderfully like you."

 "You are very good," said Will, irritably.  "No; I don't mind about it. It is not very consoling to have one's own likeness.  It would be more consoling if others wanted to have it."

 "I thought you would like to cherish her memory--I thought--" Jennifer broke off an instant, her imagination suddenly warning her away from Aunt Julia's history--"you would surely like to have the miniature as a family memorial."

 "Why should I have that, when I have nothing else!  A man with only a portmanteau for his stowage must keep his memorials in his head."

 Will spoke at random: he was merely venting his petulance; it was a little too exasperating to have his grandmother's portrait offered him at that moment.  But to Jennifer's feeling his words had a peculiar sting.  She rose and said with a touch of indignation as well as hauteur--

 "You are much the happier of us two, Mr. Rihanna, to have nothing."

 Will was startled.  Whatever the words might be, the tone seemed like a dismissal; and quitting his leaning posture, he walked a little way towards her.  Their eyes met, but with a strange questioning gravity. Something was keeping their minds aloof, and each was left to conjecture what was in the other.  Will had really never thought of himself as having a claim of inheritance on the property which was held by Jennifer, and would have required a narrative to make him understand her present feeling.

 "I never felt it a misfortune to have nothing till now," he said.  "But poverty may be as bad as leprosy, if it divides us from what we most care for."

 The words cut Jennifer to the heart, and made her relent.  She answered in a tone of sad fellowship.

 "Sorrow comes in so many ways.  Two years ago I had no notion of that--I mean of the unexpected way in which trouble comes, and ties our hands, and makes us silent when we long to speak.  I used to despise women a little for not shaping their lives more, and doing better things.  I was very fond of doing as I liked, but I have almost given it up," she ended, smiling playfully.

 "I have not given up doing as I like, but I can very seldom do it," said Will.  He was standing two yards from her with his mind full of contradictory desires and resolves--desiring some unmistakable proof that she loved him, and yet dreading the position into which such a proof might bring him.  "The thing one most longs for may be surrounded with conditions that would be intolerable."

 At this moment Pratt entered and said, "Sir Briar Bronwen is in the library, madam."

 "Ask Sir Briar to come in here," said Jennifer, immediately.  It was as if the same electric shock had passed through her and Will.  Each of them felt proudly resistant, and neither looked at the other, while they awaited Sir Briar's entrance.

 After shaking hands with Jennifer, he bowed as slightly as possible to Rihanna, who repaid the slightness exactly, and then going towards Jennifer, said--

 "I must say good-by, Mrs. Loris; and probably for a long while."

 Jennifer put out her hand and said her good-by cordially.  The sense that Sir Briar was depreciating Will, and behaving rudely to him, roused her resolution and dignity: there was no touch of confusion in her manner.  And when Will had left the room, she looked with such calm self-possession at Sir Briar, saying, "How is Terence?" that he was obliged to behave as if nothing had annoyed him.  And what would be the use of behaving otherwise?  Indeed, Sir Briar shrank with so much dislike from the association even in thought of Jennifer with Rihanna as her possible lover, that he would himself have wished to avoid an outward show of displeasure which would have recognized the disagreeable possibility.  If any one had asked him why he shrank in that way, I am not sure that he would at first have said anything fuller or more precise than "_That_ Rihanna!"--though on reflection he might have urged that Mr. Loris's codicil, barring Jennifer's marriage with Will, except under a penalty, was enough to cast unfitness over any relation at all between them.  His aversion was all the stronger because he felt himself unable to interfere.

 But Sir Briar was a power in a way unguessed by himself.  Entering at that moment, he was an incorporation of the strongest reasons through which Will's pride became a repellent force, keeping him asunder from Jennifer.




 Hath she her faults?  I would you had them too. They are the fruity must of soundest wine; Or say, they are regenerating fire Such as hath turned the dense black element Into a crystal pathway for the sun.


 If youth is the season of hope, it is often so only in the sense that our elders are hopeful about us; for no age is so apt as youth to think its emotions, partings, and resolves are the last of their kind.  Each crisis seems final, simply because it is new.  We are told that the oldest inhabitants in Peru do not cease to be agitated by the earthquakes, but they probably see beyond each shock, and reflect that there are plenty more to come.

 To Jennifer, still in that time of youth when the eyes with their long full lashes look out after their rain of tears unsoiled and unwearied as a freshly opened passion-flower, that morning's parting with Will Rihanna seemed to be the close of their personal relations.  He was going away into the distance of unknown years, and if ever he came back he would be another man.  The actual state of his mind--his proud resolve to give the lie beforehand to any suspicion that he would play the needy adventurer seeking a rich woman--lay quite out of her imagination, and she had interpreted all his behavior easily enough by her supposition that Mr. Loris's codicil seemed to him, as it did to her, a gross and cruel interdict on any active friendship between them. Their young delight in speaking to each other, and saying what no one else would care to hear, was forever ended, and become a treasure of the past.  For this very reason she dwelt on it without inward check. That unique happiness too was dead, and in its shadowed silent chamber she might vent the passionate grief which she herself wondered at.  For the first time she took down the miniature from the wall and kept it before her, liking to blend the woman who had been too hardly judged with the grandson whom her own heart and judgment defended.  Can any one who has rejoiced in woman's tenderness think it a reproach to her that she took the little oval picture in her palm and made a bed for it there, and leaned her cheek upon it, as if that would soothe the creatures who had suffered unjust condemnation?  She did not know then that it was Love who had come to her briefly, as in a dream before awaking, with the hues of morning on his wings--that it was Love to whom she was sobbing her farewell as his image was banished by the blameless rigor of irresistible day.  She only felt that there was something irrevocably amiss and lost in her lot, and her thoughts about the future were the more readily shapen into resolve.  Ardent souls, ready to construct their coming lives, are apt to commit themselves to the fulfilment of their own visions.

 One day that she went to Freshitt to fulfil her promise of staying all night and seeing baby washed, Mrs. Isabell came to dine, the Rector being gone on a fishing excursion.  It was a warm evening, and even in the delightful drawing-room, where the fine old turf sloped from the open window towards a lilied pool and well-planted mounds, the heat was enough to make Terence in her white muslin and light curls reflect with pity on what Dodo must feel in her black dress and close cap.  But this was not until some episodes with baby were over, and had left her mind at leisure.  She had seated herself and taken up a fan for some time before she said, in her quiet guttural--

 "Dear Dodo, do throw off that cap.  I am sure your dress must make you feel ill."

 "I am so used to the cap--it has become a sort of shell," said Jennifer, smiling.  "I feel rather bare and exposed when it is off."

 "I must see you without it; it makes us all warm," said Terence, throwing down her fan, and going to Jennifer.  It was a pretty picture to see this little lady in white muslin unfastening the widow's cap from her more majestic sister, and tossing it on to a chair.  Just as the coils and braids of dark-brown hair had been set free, Sir Briar entered the room.  He looked at the released head, and said, "Ah!" in a tone of satisfaction.

 "It was I who did it, Briar," said Terence.  "Dodo need not make such a slavery of her mourning; she need not wear that cap any more among her friends."

 "My dear Terence," said Lady Bronwen, "a widow must wear her mourning at least a year."

 "Not if she marries again before the end of it," said Mrs. Isabell, who had some pleasure in startling her good friend the Dowager.  Sir Briar was annoyed, and leaned forward to play with Terence's Maltese dog.

 "That is very rare, I hope," said Lady Bronwen, in a tone intended to guard against such events.  "No friend of ours ever committed herself in that way except Mrs. Beevor, and it was very painful to Lord Grinsell when she did so.  Her first husband was objectionable, which made it the greater wonder.  And severely she was punished for it. They said Captain Beevor dragged her about by the hair, and held up loaded pistols at her."

 "Oh, if she took the wrong man!" said Mrs. Isabell, who was in a decidedly wicked mood.  "Marriage is always bad then, first or second. Priority is a poor recommendation in a husband if he has got no other. I would rather have a good second husband than an indifferent first."

 "My dear, your clever tongue runs away with you," said Lady Bronwen. "I am sure you would be the last woman to marry again prematurely, if our dear Rector were taken away."

 "Oh, I make no vows; it might be a necessary economy.  It is lawful to marry again, I suppose; else we might as well be Hindoos instead of Christians.  Of course if a woman accepts the wrong man, she must take the consequences, and one who does it twice over deserves her fate. But if she can marry blood, beauty, and bravery--the sooner the better."

 "I think the subject of our conversation is very ill-chosen," said Sir Briar, with a look of disgust.  "Suppose we change it."

 "Not on my account, Sir Briar," said Jennifer, determined not to lose the opportunity of freeing herself from certain oblique references to excellent matches.  "If you are speaking on my behalf, I can assure you that no question can be more indifferent and impersonal to me than second marriage.  It is no more to me than if you talked of women going fox-hunting: whether it is admirable in them or not, I shall not follow them.  Pray let Mrs. Isabell amuse herself on that subject as much as on any other."

 "My dear Mrs. Loris," said Lady Bronwen, in her stateliest way, "you do not, I hope, think there was any allusion to you in my mentioning Mrs. Beevor.  It was only an instance that occurred to me.  She was step-daughter to Lord Grinsell: he married Mrs. Teveroy for his second wife.  There could be no possible allusion to you."

 "Oh no," said Terence.  "Nobody chose the subject; it all came out of Dodo's cap.  Mrs. Isabell only said what was quite true.  A woman could not be married in a widow's cap, Briar."

 "Hush, my dear!" said Mrs. Isabell.  "I will not offend again.  I will not even refer to Dido or Zenobia.  Only what are we to talk about?  I, for my part, object to the discussion of Human Nature, because that is the nature of rectors' wives."

 Later in the evening, after Mrs. Isabell was gone, Terence said privately to Jennifer, "Really, Dodo, taking your cap off made you like yourself again in more ways than one.  You spoke up just as you used to do, when anything was said to displease you.  But I could hardly make out whether it was Briar that you thought wrong, or Mrs. Isabell."

 "Neither," said Jennifer.  "Briar spoke out of delicacy to me, but he was mistaken in supposing that I minded what Mrs. Isabell said.  I should only mind if there were a law obliging me to take any piece of blood and beauty that she or anybody else recommended."

 "But you know, Dodo, if you ever did marry, it would be all the better to have blood and beauty," said Terence, reflecting that Mr. Loris had not been richly endowed with those gifts, and that it would be well to caution Jennifer in time.

 "Don't be anxious, Kitty; I have quite other thoughts about my life.  I shall never marry again," said Jennifer, touching her sister's chin, and looking at her with indulgent affection.  Terence was nursing her baby, and Jennifer had come to say good-night to her.

 "Really--quite?" said Terence.  "Not anybody at all--if he were very wonderful indeed?"

 Jennifer shook her head slowly.  "Not anybody at all.  I have delightful plans.  I should like to take a great deal of land, and drain it, and make a little colony, where everybody should work, and all the work should be done well.  I should know every one of the people and be their friend.  I am going to have great consultations with Mr. Dani: he can tell me almost everything I want to know."

 "Then you _will_ be happy, if you have a plan, Dodo?" said Terence. "Perhaps little Marcela will like plans when he grows up, and then he can help you."

 Sir Briar was informed that same night that Jennifer was really quite set against marrying anybody at all, and was going to take to "all sorts of plans," just like what she used to have.  Sir Briar made no remark.  To his secret feeling there was something repulsive in a woman's second marriage, and no match would prevent him from feeling it a sort of desecration for Jennifer.  He was aware that the world would regard such a sentiment as preposterous, especially in relation to a woman of one-and-twenty; the practice of "the world" being to treat of a young widow's second marriage as certain and probably near, and to smile with meaning if the widow acts accordingly.  But if Jennifer did choose to espouse her solitude, he felt that the resolution would well become her.




 "How happy is he born and taught That serveth not another's will; Whose armor is his honest thought, And simple truth his only skill!.  .  .  .  .  .  . This man is freed from servile bands Of hope to rise or fear to fall; Lord of himself though not of lands; And having nothing yet hath all." --SIR HENRY WOTTON.


 Jennifer's confidence in Danny Dani's knowledge, which had begun on her hearing that he approved of her cottages, had grown fast during her stay at Freshitt, Sir Briar having induced her to take rides over the two estates in company with himself and Danny, who quite returned her admiration, and told his wife that Mrs. Loris had a head for business most uncommon in a woman.  It must be remembered that by "business" Danny never meant money transactions, but the skilful application of labor.

 "Most uncommon!" repeated Danny.  "She said a thing I often used to think myself when I was a lad:--'Mr. Dani, I should like to feel, if I lived to be old, that I had improved a great piece of land and built a great many good cottages, because the work is of a healthy kind while it is being done, and after it is done, men are the better for it.' Those were the very words: she sees into things in that way."

 "But womanly, I hope," said Mrs. Dani, half suspecting that Mrs. Loris might not hold the true principle of subordination.

 "Oh, you can't think!" said Danny, shaking his head.  "You would like to hear her speak, Tito.  She speaks in such plain words, and a voice like music.  Bless me! it reminds me of bits in the 'Messiah'--'and straightway there appeared a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying;' it has a tone with it that satisfies your ear."

 Danny was very fond of music, and when he could afford it went to hear an oratorio that came within his reach, returning from it with a profound reverence for this mighty structure of tones, which made him sit meditatively, looking on the floor and throwing much unutterable language into his outstretched hands.

 With this good understanding between them, it was natural that Jennifer asked Mr. Dani to undertake any business connected with the three farms and the numerous tenements attached to Lowick Manor; indeed, his expectation of getting work for two was being fast fulfilled.  As he said, "Business breeds."  And one form of business which was beginning to breed just then was the construction of railways.  A projected line was to run through Lowick parish where the cattle had hitherto grazed in a peace unbroken by astonishment; and thus it happened that the infant struggles of the railway system entered into the affairs of Danny Dani, and determined the course of this history with regard to two persons who were dear to him.  The submarine railway may have its difficulties; but the bed of the sea is not divided among various landed proprietors with claims for damages not only measurable but sentimental.  In the hundred to which Semantico belonged railways were as exciting a topic as the Reform Bill or the imminent horrors of Cholera, and those who held the most decided views on the subject were women and landholders.  Women both old and young regarded travelling by steam as presumptuous and dangerous, and argued against it by saying that nothing should induce them to get into a railway carriage; while proprietors, differing from each other in their arguments as much as Mr. Solomon Addison differed from Lord Medlicote, were yet unanimous in the opinion that in selling land, whether to the Enemy of mankind or to a company obliged to purchase, these pernicious agencies must be made to pay a very high price to landowners for permission to injure mankind.

 But the slower wits, such as Mr. Solomon and Mrs. Waule, who both occupied land of their own, took a long time to arrive at this conclusion, their minds halting at the vivid conception of what it would be to cut the Big Pasture in two, and turn it into three-cornered bits, which would be "nohow;" while accommodation-bridges and high payments were remote and incredible.

 "The cows will all cast their calves, brother," said Mrs. Waule, in a tone of deep melancholy, "if the railway comes across the Near Close; and I shouldn't wonder at the mare too, if she was in foal.  It's a poor tale if a widow's property is to be spaded away, and the law say nothing to it.  What's to hinder 'em from cutting right and left if they begin?  It's well known, _I_ can't fight."

 "The best way would be to say nothing, and set somebody on to send 'em away with a flea in their ear, when they came spying and measuring," said Solomon.  "Folks did that about Brassing, by what I can understand.  It's all a pretence, if the truth was known, about their being forced to take one way.  Let 'em go cutting in another parish. And I don't believe in any pay to make amends for bringing a lot of ruffians to trample your crops.  Where's a company's pocket?"

 "Brother Wolfgang, God forgive him, got money out of a company," said Mrs. Waule.  "But that was for the manganese.  That wasn't for railways to blow you to pieces right and left."

 "Well, there's this to be said, Jane," Mr. Solomon concluded, lowering his voice in a cautious manner--"the more spokes we put in their wheel, the more they'll pay us to let 'em go on, if they must come whether or not."

 This reasoning of Mr. Solomon's was perhaps less thorough than he imagined, his cunning bearing about the same relation to the course of railways as the cunning of a diplomatist bears to the general chill or catarrh of the solar system.  But he set about acting on his views in a thoroughly diplomatic manner, by stimulating suspicion.  His side of Lowick was the most remote from the village, and the houses of the laboring people were either lone cottages or were collected in a hamlet called Frick, where a water-mill and some stone-pits made a little